1
The purposes of the Standards include all of the following except

Establishing the basis for the measurement of internal audit performance.	 
The purposes of the Standards include establishing the basis for the measurement of internal audit performance.  
Guiding the ethical conduct of internal auditors.
The IIA Code of Ethics describes Rules of Conduct that constitute 'behavior norms expected of internal auditors. These mies are intended as an aid to interpreting the Principles into practical applications and are intended to guide the ethical conduct of internal auditors.'  The purposes of the Standards are to I. State basic principles that represent the practice of internal auditing as it should be. 2.	Provide a framework for performing and promoting a broad range of value-added internal audit activities. 3.	Establish the basis for the measurement of internal audit performance. 4.	Foster improved organizational processes and operations. (Introduction to the Standards)
	Stating basic principles that represent the practice of internal auditing as it should be.
The purposes of the Standards include stating basic principles that represent the practice of internal auditing as it should be.
The purposes of the Standards include fostering improved organizational processes and operations.
2
1
2
The proper organizational role of internal auditing is to

Assist the external auditor to reduce external audit fees.	 
Reducing external audit fees may be a direct result of internal audit work, but it is not a reason for staffing an internal audit activity.  
Perform studies to assist in the attainment of more efficient operations.
 The primary role of internal auditing includes, but is not limited to, assessing the efficiency of operations.
Serve as the investigative arm of the board.
 Internal auditors serve management as well as the board.
 According to the definition of internal auditing, 'Internal auditing is an independent, objective assurance and consulting activity designed to add value and improve an organization's operations. It helps an organization accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes.'
4
1
3
One of the purposes of the /nternational Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal
Auditing as stated in the Introduction to the current version of the Standards is to
 


 Encourage the professionalization of internal auditing.
 The professionalization of internal auditing is important but is not a direct purpose of the Standards.
Establish the independence of the internal audit activity and emphasize the objectivity of internal auditing.
Independence and objectivity are but two aspects of the practice of internal auditing as it should be.
Encourage external auditors to make more extensive use of the work of internal auditors.
The Standards do not formally encourage external auditors to make more extensive use of the work of internal auditors.
The Introduction states the following purposes of the current version of the Standards: I. State basic principles that represent the practice of internal auditing as it should be. 2.	Provide a framework for performing and promoting a broad range of value-added internal audit activities. 3.	Establish the basis for evaluating internal auditing performance. 4.	Foster improved organizational processes and operations.
4
1
4
Internal audit activities may involve which of the following?

Assurance services.	 
Internal audit activities may involve more than just assurance services.  
Consulting services.
 Internal audit activities may involve more than just consulting services.
Both assurance and consulting services.
Internal audit activities may involve both assurance and consulting services. Assurance services are objective examinations of evidence for the purpose of providing an independent assessment of risk management, control, and governance processes for the organization. Consulting services are advisory and related client service activities. Their nature and scope are agreed upon with the client and are intended to add value and improve an organization's governance, risk management, and control processes without assumption of management responsibility by the internal auditor.
Internal audit activities may involve both assurance and consulting services.
3
1
5
Which Standards expand upon the other categories of Standards?

	 Performance Standards. 	 
Performance Standards apply to all internal audit services.  
Attribute Standards.
Attribute Standards apply to all internal audit services.
Implementation Standards.
According to the Introduction to the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing, Implementation Standards are provided to expand upon the Attribute and Performance Standards. They provide requirements applicable to specific engagements. Thus, a specific implementation standard applies to assurance or consulting services but not both.
 Only Implementation Standards expand upon the standards in other categories.
3
1
6
An internal auditor often faces special problems when performing an engagement at a foreign
subsidiary. Which of the following statements is false with respect to the conduct of
international engagements?



The IIA Standards do not apply outside of the United States.
Pronouncements by The IIA have no geographic limits. Internal auditing is practiced in diverse environments and organizations throughout the world, and laws and customs vary among nations. These differences affect the practice of internal auditing and therefore the implementation of the Standards. However, compliance with the concepts in the Standards is essential before the responsibilities of internal auditors can be met.
The internal auditor should determine whether managers are in compliance with local laws.
The internal auditor should evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of controls, including those relating to compliance with laws, regulations, policies, procedures, and contracts (Standard 2120.Al).
There may be justification for having different organizational policies in force in foreign branches.
Varying laws and customs and other environmental factors justify policy differences.
The internal audit activity collectively must have the knowledge, skills, and other competencies needed to perform its responsibilities (Standard 121 O).
1
1
7
Which of the following best describes the purpose of the internal audit activity?

To add value and improve an organization's operations	 
According to the Definition of Internal Auditing, 'Internal auditing is an independent, objective assurance and consulting activity designed to add value and improve an organization's operations. It helps an organization accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes.'   
To assist management with the design and implementation of risk management and control systems.
 Performing the functions of design and implementation of risk management and control systems would impair the objectivity of the internal auditors. An internal auditor may recommend control standards and review procedures prior to their implementation.
To examine and evaluate an organization's accounting system as a service to management.
Internal auditing is much broader than examining and evaluating an organization's accounting system.
Internal auditing serves the organization, not the external auditors.
1
1
8
The function of internal auditing, as related to communicating results, is to

Ensure compliance with reporting procedures.	 
Ensuring compliance is an operational responsibility.   
Review the expenditure items and match each item with the expenses incurred.
Actual outflows of funds and accrued expenses are unlikely to be equal.
Determine whether any employees are expending funds without authorization.
One of the primary roles of the internal audit activity is to evaluate and contribute to the improvement of risk management, control, and governance systems (Standard 2100). However, other organizational functions would have immediate operational responsibility for determining whether unauthorized expenditures were occurring.
According to the definition of internal auditing, 'Internal auditing is an independent, objective assurance and consulting activity designed to add value and improve an organization' s operations. It helps an organization accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes.'  Accordingly, the internal audit activity should evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of controls and develop recommendations for improvement.
4
1
9
The internal audit activity's scope of responsibilities includes



Eliminating risk.
Eliminating risks is the responsibility of management.
Managing risk.
Managing risk is the responsibility of management.
Evaluating risk.
.  The internal audit activity helps an organization accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes. Managing, controlling, and eliminating risk is the responsibility of management.
Controlling risk is the responsibility of management.
3
1
10
The Standards consist of three types of Standards. Which Standards apply to the characteristics
of providers of internal auditing services?


Implementation Standards. 
Implementation Standards apply to specific types of engagements.  
Performance Standards.
Performance Standards describe the nature of internal auditing and provide quality criteria for evaluation of internal audit performance.
Attribute Standards.
Attribute Standards concern the characteristics of organizations and parties providing internal auditing services.
 Independence Standards are not one of the three types of Standards. The Attribute Standards address organizational independence and individual objectivity.
3
1
11
According to the International Professional Practices Framework of The IIA, which
pronouncements represent mandatory guidance for implementing the Standards?
	


Development Aids.
Development Aids are not part of the IPPF. The Definition of Internal Auditing, the Code of Ethics, Attribute Standards, Implementation Standards, and Performance Standards are mandatory guidance.  
Practice Aids.
Practice Aids are not part of the IPPF. The Code of Ethics, Attribute Standards, Implementation Standards, and Performance Standards are mandatory guidance.
Performance Standards.
 The Definition of Internal Auditing, the Code of Ethics, Attribute Standards, Implementation Standards, and Performance Standards are mandatory guidance.
Practice Advisories are strongly recommended guidance. They assist internal auditors in applying the Definition of Internal Auditing, the Code of Ethics, and the Standards and promoting good practices.
3
1
12
During a consulting engagement, an internal auditor should exercise due professional care by
considering which of the following?
I. Needs and expectations of engagement clients
II.	. Relative complexity and extent of work needed
III.	I. Cost of the consulting engagement



 land II.
The internal audit also must consider the cost of the consulting engagement in relation to the potential benefits when exercising due professional care on a consulting engagement (Standard 1220.C I ).
II and III.
The internal auditor also must consider the needs and expectations of engagement clients, including the nature, timing, and communication of engagement results, when exercising due professional care on a consulting engagement (Standard 1220.C I ).
I and III.
The internal auditor also must consider the relative complexity and extent of work needed to achieve the engagement' s objectives when exercising due professional care on a consulting engagement (Standard 1220.C I ).
The internal auditor must exercise due professional care during a consulting engagement by considering the O Needs and expectations of engagement clients, including the nature, timing, and communication of engagement results. 0 Relative complexity and extent of work needed to achieve the engagement's objectives. 0 Cost of the consulting engagement in relation to potential benefits. (Standard 1220.CI )
4
1
13
What is the responsibility of the internal auditor with respect to fraud?



 The internal auditor should have sufficient knowledge to identify the indicators of fraud but is not expected to be an expert.
Internal auditors must have sufficient knowledge to evaluate the risk of fraud and the manner in which it is managed by the organization. They are not expected to have the expertise of a person whose primary responsibility is detecting and investigating fraud (Standard 1210.A2).
The internal auditor should have the same ability to detect fraud as a person whose primary responsibility is detecting and investigating fraud. 
The internal auditor is not expected to have the expertise of a person whose primary responsibility is detecting and investigating fraud.
An internal auditor should have sufficient knowledge and training so that (s)he is able to detect fraud.
 An internal auditor must have sufficient knowledge to identify the indicators of fraud but is not required to have sufficient knowledge and training to be able to detect fraud.
Detecting and investigating fraud is not a primary role of an internal auditor.
1
1
14
Which of the following is responsible for developing and maintaining a quality assurance and
improvement program that covers all aspects of the internal audit activity and continuously
monitors its effectiveness?



 Senior management.
Senior management is not responsible for developing and maintaining a quality assurance and improvement program that covers all aspects of the internal audit activity and continuously monitors its effectiveness.  
Chief audit executive.
The chief audit executive must develop and maintain a quality assurance and improvement program that covers all aspects of the internal audit activity. A quality assurance and improvement program is designed to enable an evaluation of the internal audit activitys conformance with the Definition of Internal Auditing and the Standards and an evaluation of whether internal auditors apply the Code of Ethics. The program also assesses the efficiency and effectiveness of the internal audit activity and identifies opportunities for improvement (Standard 1300).
The board of directors.
The directors are not responsible for developing and maintaining a quality assurance and improvement program that covers all aspects of the internal audit activity and continuously monitors its effectiveness.
The audit committee is not responsible for developing and maintaining a quality assurance and improvement program that covers all aspects of the internal audit activity and continuously monitors its effectiveness.
2
1
15
The chief audit executive (CAE) of a mid-sized internal audit activity (IAA) was concerned that
management might outsource the internal auditing function. Thus, the CAE adopted a very
aggressive program to promote the IAA within the organization. The CAE planned to present
the results to senior management and the board and recommend modification of the IAA's
charter after using the new program. The following lists six actions the CAE took to promote a
positive image within the organization:

Engagement assignments concentrated on efficiency. The engagements focused solely on
cost savings, and each engagement communication highlighted potential costs to be
saved. Negative observations were omitted. The focus on efficiency was new, but the
engagement clients seemed very happy.
Drafts of all engagement communications were carefully reviewed with the engagement
clients to get their input. Their comments were carefully considered when developing the
final engagement communication.
The information technology internal auditor participated as part of a development team to
review the control procedures to be incorporated into a major computer application under
development.
Given limited resources, the engagement manager performed a risk assessment to
establish engagement work schedule priorities. This was a marked departure from the
previous approach of ensuring that all operations are evaluated on at least a 3-year
interval.
To save time, the CAE no longer required that a standard internal control questionnaire be
completed for each engagement.
When the internal auditors found that the engagement client had not developed specific
criteria or data to evaluate operations, the internal auditors were instructed to perform
research, develop specific criteria, review the criteria with the engagement client, and, if
acceptable, use them to evaluate the engagement client's operations. If the engagement
client disagreed with the criteria, a negotiation took place until acceptable criteria could
be agreed upon. The engagement communication commented on the engagement client's
operations in conjunction with the agreed-upon criteria.

Which of the following elements of Action I taken by the CAE would be considered
inappropriate?
I. The type of engagements was changed before modifying the IAA's charter and going to
the audit committee.
II.	. Negative observations were omitted from the engagement communications.
III.	I. Cost savings and recommendations were highlighted in the engagement communication.
	



 land II.
The charter defines the IAA's purpose, authority, and responsibility. It must be consistent with the Definition of Internal Auditing, the Code of Ethics, and the Standards and approved by senior management and the board (Standard I OOO). The CAE dramatically changed the purpose of the IAA without consulting with the board. A second violation is the omission of negative observations. Under the Code of Ethics, the auditors must disclose all material facts known to them that, if not disclosed, may distort the reporting of activities under review (Rule of Conduct 2.3).   
land III.
 Highlighting potential cost savings is appropriate for an engagement communication, and material negative observations must not be omitted.
	I only.
Omitting negative observations is also a violation.
The CAE dramatically changed the purpose of the IAA without consulting with the board. Moreover, highlighting potential cost savings is appropriate for an engagement communication.
1
1
16
Which of the following are closely related to engagement objectives?

I. The engagement work program
II.	. Engagement communications
III.	I. The engagement plan



land III only.
Engagement communications include the engagement's objectives and scope as well as conclusions, recommendations, and action plans.
I and II only.
 The engagement plan includes the engagement' s scope, objectives, timing, and resource allocations.
	II and III only.
Internal auditors develop work programs to achieve engagement objectives.
 Engagement objectives are broad statements developed by internal auditors that define intended engagement accomplishments (Glossary). The engagement work program is a document that lists the procedures to be followed during an engagement that are designed to achieve the engagement objectives (Glossary). An engagement communication must include the engagement's objectives and scope as well as applicable conclusions, recommendations, and action plans (Standard 241 O). The engagement plan must include the engagement' s scope, objectives, timing, and resource allocations (Standard 2200).
4
1
17
Internal auditors need to ascertain the extent to which management has established adequate
control criteria. For this purpose, which of the following actions may be appropriate?
I. Determining whether objectives have been accomplished
II.	. Using the criteria in their evaluation
III.	I. Working with management to develop appropriate control evaluation criteria



I only.
The internal auditors also may take the actions described in statements Hand III.
land II only.
The internal auditors also may take the action described in statement III.
	I, II, and III.
 'Adequate criteria are needed to evaluate controls. Internal auditors must ascertain the extent to which management has established adequate criteria to determine whether objectives and goals have been accomplished. If adequate, internal auditors must use such criteria in their evaluation. If inadequate, internal auditors must work with management to develop appropriate evaluation criteria' (Standard 221 0.A3).
 The internal auditors also may take the actions described in statements I and III.
3
1
18
In planning an engagement, internal auditors must consider which of the following items?

I. The objectives of the activity being reviewed.
II.	. The adequacy and effectiveness of the activity's risk management and control processes.
III.	I. The opportunities for making significant improvements to the activity's information
technology systems and control systems.
	


land II.
'In planning the engagement, internal auditors must consider O The objectives of the activity being reviewed and the means by which the activity controls its performance; O The significant risks to the activity, its objectives, resources, and operations and the means by which the potential impact of risk is kept to an acceptable level; O The adequacy and effectiveness of the activity' s risk management and control processes compared to a relevant control framework or model; and O The opportunities for making significant improvements to the activity's risk management and control processes' (Standard 2201 ). The internal auditor does not have to consider the opportunities for making significant improvements to the activity's information technology systems and control systems.  
II and III.
The internal auditor must consider the objectives of the activity being reviewed and the means by which the activity controls its performance but not the opportunities for making significant improvements to the activity's information technology systems and control systems.
I and III.
 The internal auditor must consider the adequacy and effectiveness of the activity's risk management and control processes compared to a relevant control framework or model but not the opportunities for making significant improvements to the activity's information technology systems and control systems.
 The internal auditor does not have to consider opportunities to improve the activity's information technology systems and control systems.
1
1
19
Internal auditors must communicate results of engagements. Communications for assurance
engagements must include
I. Limitations on distribution to outside parties
II.	. The internal auditors' opinion or conclusions when appropriate
III.	I. Recommendations and action plans when applicable



II only.
Communications for all assurance engagements also must include limitations on distribution to outside parties and the engagement's objectives and scope as well as applicable conclusions, recommendations, and action plans.  
III only.
 Communications for all assurance engagements also must include limitations on distribution to outside parties and the internal auditors' opinion or conclusions when appropriate.
I and II only.
Communications for all assurance engagements also must include the engagement's objectives and scope as well as applicable conclusions, recommendations, and action plans.
0 Standard 24 10.A3 states, 'When releasing engagement results to parties outside the organization, the communication must include limitations on distribution and use of the results.' 0 Standard 2410.Al states, 'Final communication of engagement results must, where appropriate, contain the internal auditors' opinion and/or conclusions.' 0 Standard 2410 states, 'Communications must include the engagement's objectives and scope as well as applicable conclusions, recommendations, and action plans.'
4
1
20
The internal audit activity has a role in an organization's governance process. The internal audit
activity most directly contributes to this process by



 Identifying significant exposures to risk.
Standard 2100 states, 'The internal audit activity must evaluate and contribute to the improvement of governance, risk management, and control processes using a systematic and disciplined approach.'  Identifying significant exposures to risk most directly relates to risk management. According to the Interpretation of Standard 2120, 'Determining whether risk management processes are effective is a judgment resulting from the internal auditor's assessment that O Organizational objectives support and align with the organization's mission; 0 Significant risks are identified and assessed; 0 Appropriate risk responses are selected that align risks with the organization's risk appetite; and 0 Relevant risk information is captured and communicated in a timely manner across the organization, enabling staff, management, and the board to carry out their responsibilities.'  
Evaluating the effectiveness of the risk-management system.
 Standard 2100 states, 'The internal audit activity must evaluate and contribute to the improvement of governance, risk management, and control processes using a systematic and disciplined approach.'  Evaluating the effectiveness of the risk-management system most directly relates to risk management. According to Standard 2120, 'The internal audit activity must evaluate the effectiveness and contribute to the improvement of risk management processes.'
Promoting continuous improvement of controls.
 Standard 2100 states, 'The internal audit activity must evaluate and contribute to the improvement of governance, risk management, and control processes using a systematic and disciplined approach.'  Of the three processes (govemance, risk management, control), the most closely associated with evaluation of design of ethics activities is governance. According to Standard 2130, 'The internal audit activity must assist the organization in maintaining effective controls by evaluating their effectiveness and efficiency and by promoting continuous improvement.'
Standard 2110 states, 'The internal audit activity must assess and make appropriate recommendations for improving the governance process in its accomplishment of the following objectives: 0 Promoting appropriate ethics and values within the organization; O Ensuring effective organizational performance management and accountability; 0 Communicating risk and control information to appropriate areas of the organization; and 0 Coordinating the activities of and communicating information among the board, external and internal auditors and management' Thus, in an assurance engagement, 'The internal audit activity must evaluate the design, implementation, and effectiveness of the organization's ethics-related objectives, programs, and activities' (Standard 2110.Al).
4
1
21
The work of the internal audit activity includes evaluating and contributing to the improvement
of risk management systems. Risk is
I. The negative effect of events certain to occur
II.	. Measured in terms of impact
III.	I. Measured in terms of likelihood



 I only.
Risk is measured in terms of impact and likelihood. Moreover, it involves uncertainty, and the effects of events are not necessarily negative.
land II only.
 Risk also is measured in terms of likelihood. Moreover, it involves uncertainty, and the effects of events are not necessarily negative.
II and III only.
The IAA must evaluate the effectiveness and contribute to the improvement of risk management processes (Standard 2120). Risk is the possibility of an event' s occurrence that will have an impact on the achievement of objectives. Risk is measured in terms of impact and likelihood (Glossary).
Risk involves uncertainty, and the effects of events are not necessarily negative.
3
1
22
The chief audit executive (CAE) is best defined as the



 Inspector general.
 The term 'chief audit executive' is defined broadly to reflect that the IAA may be insourced or outsourced and that many different titles are used in practice.
Person responsible for the internal audit function.
The CAE is a person in a senior position responsible for effectively managing the IAA in accordance with the internal audit charter and the Definition of Internal Auditing, the Code of Ethics, and the Standards. The CAE or others reporting to the CAE will have appropriate professional certifications and qualifications. The specific job title of the CAE may vary across organizations (Glossary). Answer (C) is incorrect.
Outside provider of internal audit services.
 The IAA may be insourced.
 The term 'chief audit executive' is defined broadly to reflect that the IAA may be insourced or outsourced and that many different titles are used in practice.
2
1
23
A major reason for establishing an internal audit activity is to


 Relieve overburdened management of the responsibility for establishing effective controls.
Management is responsible for the establishment of internal control.
Safeguard resources entrusted to the organization.
Governance, risk management, and control processes ultimately serve to safeguard the organization's resources.
Ensure the reliability and integrity of financial and operational information.
The IAA cannot ensure the reliability and integrity of financial and operational information. Its responsibility is to evaluate risk exposures relating to governance, operations, and information systems regarding the reliability and integrity of financial and operational information (Standard 2120.Al ). The IAA must then evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of controls in responding to risks within governance, operations, and information systems regarding the reliability and integrity of financial and operational information (Standard 2130.Al ).
 Control processes are the 'policies, procedures, and activities that are part of a control framework, designed to ensure that risks are contained within the risk tolerances established by the risk management process.'  Hence, they have a prominent role in the work of the internal audit activity, which 'helps an organization accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes' (Glossary).
4
1
24
What is the most accurate term for the procedures used by the board to oversee activities
performed to achieve organizational objectives?


 Governance.
Governance is the 'combination of processes and structures implemented by the board to inform, direct, manage, and monitor the activities of the organization toward the achievement of its objectives' (Glossary).  
Control.
Control is 'any action taken by management, the board, and other parties to manage risk and increase the likelihood that established objectives and goals will be achieved. Management plans, organizes, and directs the performance of sufficient actions to provide reasonable assurance that objectives and goals will be achieved' (Glossary).
Risk management.
Risk management is 'a process to identify, assess, manage, and control potential events or situations to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of the organization's objectives' (Glossary).
Monitoring consists of actions taken by management and others to assess the quality of internal control performance over time. It is not currently defined in the Standards and Glossary.
1
1
25
The actions taken to manage risk and increase the likelihood that established objectives and
goals will be achieved are best described as
 


 Supervision.
Supervision is just one means of achieving control.
Quality assurance.
 Quality assurance relates to just one set of objectives and goals. It does not pertain to achievement of all established organizational objectives and goals.
Control.
Control is 'any action taken by management, the board, and other parties to manage risk and increase the likelihood that established objectives and goals will be achieved. Management plans, organizes, and directs the performance of sufficient actions to provide reasonable assurance that objectives and goals will be achieved' (Glossary).
Compliance is 'adherence to policies, plans, procedures, laws, regulations, contracts, or other requirements' (Glossary).
3
1
26
Which of the following is the most accurate term for the attitudes and actions of the board and
management regarding the significance of control within the organization?
	


Control processes.
Control processes are the 'policies, procedures, and activities that are part of a control framework designed to ensure that risks are contained within the risk tolerances established by the risk management process' (Glossary).  
Control environment.
The control environment encompasses 'the attitude and actions of the board and management regarding the importance of control within the organization. The control environment provides the discipline and structure for the achievement of the primary objectives of the system of internal control. The control environment includes the following elements: O Integrity and ethical values 0 Management's philosophy and operating style 0 Organizational structure O Assignment of authority and responsibility 0 Human resource policies and practices 0 Competence of personnel' (Glossary)
Governance process.
 Governance is the 'combination of processes and structures implemented by the board to inform, direct, manage, and monitor the activities of the organization toward the achievement of its objectives' (Glossary).
Management's philosophy and operating style is just one element of the control environment.
2
1
27
What is residual risk?



 Impact of risk.
The impact of risk is its consequence.
Risk that is under control.
Risk that is under control is managed risk.
Risk that is not managed.
Risk is the possibility of an event's occurrence that will have an impact on the achievement of objectives. Risk is measured in terms of impact and likelihood. Residual risk is the risk remaining after management takes action to reduce the impact and likelihood of an adverse event. Such action includes control activities in responding to a risk.
The underlying risk is the inherent risk.
3
1
28
Internal auditing is an assurance and consulting activity. An example of an assurance service is

Advisory engagement. 
 An advisory engagement is a consulting service.
Facilitation engagement.
 A facilitation engagement is a consulting service.
Training engagement.
 A training engagement is a consulting service.
 According to the Glossary, an assurance service is 'an objective examination of evidence for the purpose of providing an independent assessment of governance, risk management, and control processes for the organization. Examples may include financial, performance, compliance, system security, and due diligence engagements.'
4
1
29
According to the Glossary appended to the Standards, which of the following are most directly
designed to ensure that risks are contained?



Risk management processes.
Risk management is a process to identify, assess, manage, and control potential events or situations to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of the organization's objectives.
Internal audit activities.
 An internal audit activity is a department, division, team of consultants, or other practioner(s) that provides independent, objective assurance and consulting services designed to add value and improve an organization's operations. The internal audit activity helps an organization accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of governance, risk management and control processes.
Control processes.
 Control processes are the policies, procedures, and activities that are part of a control framework, designed to ensure that risks are contained within the risk tolerances established by the risk management process.
Governance is the combination of processes and structures implemented by the board to inform, direct, manage, and monitor the activities of the organization toward the achievement of its objectives.
3
1
30
Internal auditors should be objective. Objectivity



 Requires internal auditors not to subordinate their judgment on audit matters to that of others.
 Objectivity is 'an unbiased mental attitude that allows internal auditors to perform engagements in such a manner that they believe in their work product and that no quality compromises are made. Objectivity requires that internal auditors do not subordinate their judgment on audit matters to others' (Glossary).
Is required only in assurance engagements.
Objectivity also is required in a consulting engagement. An impairment of objectivity should be disclosed to the engagement client prior to acceptance of the engagement (Standard I 130.C2).
Freedom from threats to the ability to perform audit work without bias.
Independence is freedom from threats to the ability to perform audit work without bias.
Standard I 130.C I  states that internal auditors may provide consulting services relating to operations for which they had previous responsibility.
1
1
31
Freedom from conditions that threaten internal auditors' ability to do unbiased work is
 


 Control.
 Control is 'any action taken by management, the board, or other parties to manage risk and increase the likelihood that established objectives and goals will be achieved. Management plans, organizes, and directs the performance of sufficient actions to provide reasonable assurance that objectives and goals will be achieved' (Glossary).
Compliance.
Compliance is 'adherence to policies, plans, procedures, laws, regulations, contracts, or other requirements' (Glossary).
Independence.
Independence is 'the freedom from conditions that threaten the ability of the internal audit activity to carry out internal audit responsibilities in an unbiased manner' (Glossary).
Conditions other than conflicts of interest may create bias or the appearance of bias.
3
1
32
The term &quot;risk&quot; is best defined as the possibility that



 An internal auditor will fail to detect a material misstatement that causes financial statements or internal reports to be misstated or misleading.
 Detection risk is a component of audit risk.
An event could occur affecting the achievement of objectives.
According to the Glossary appended to the Standards, risk is 'the possibility of an event occurring that will have an impact on the achievement of objectives. Risk is measured in terms of impact and likelihood.'
Management will, either knowingly or unknowingly, make decisions that increase the potential liability of the organization.
 The risk of increasing the organization' s liability could be termed management decision-making risk.
Risk is not limited to misstated financial statements.
2
1
33
Use of external service providers with expertise in healthcare benefits is appropriate when the
internal audit activity is



Evaluating the organization's estimate of its liability for postretirement benefits, which include healthcare benefits.
Use of external service providers with expertise in healthcare benefits is appropriate when evaluating the organization's estimate of its liability for postretirement benefits, which include healthcare benefits.  
Comparing the cost of the organization's healthcare program with other programs offered in           the industry.
 Use of external service providers with expertise in healthcare benefits is appropriate when comparing the cost of the organization's healthcare program with other programs offered in the industry.
Training its staff to conduct an audit of healthcare costs in a major division of the organization.
 Use of external service providers with expertise in healthcare benefits is appropriate when the IAA is training its staff to conduct an audit of healthcare costs in a major division of the organization.
 If the internal auditors lack expertise with regard to healthcare benefits, external service providers should be employed who can provide the requisite knowledge, skills, and other competencies. They may be used in connection with, among other things, determining amounts by using specialized methods, such as actuarial calculation of employee benefit obligations (PA 1210.A I -I). Thus, ESPs may provide assistance in (I) estimating the liability for postretirement benefits, (2) developing a comparative analysis of healthcare costs, and (3) training the staff to audit healthcare costs.
4
1
34
A chief audit executive has reviewed credentials, checked references, and interviewed a
candidate for a staff position. The CAE concludes that the candidate has a thorough
understanding of internal audit techniques, accounting, and finance. However, the candidate has
limited knowledge of economics and information technology. Which action is most
appropriate?
	


Reject the candidate because of the lack of knowledge required by the Standards.
The Standards do not require each internal auditor to possess a knowledge of all relevant subjects.  
Offer the candidate a position despite lack of knowledge in certain essential areas.
The IAA's needs may be for additional expertise in economics or information technology.
	Encourage the candidate to obtain additional training in economics and information technology and then reapply.
 Encouraging the candidate to obtain additional training does not adequately address the IAA's current needs.
 The IAA must collectively possess or obtain the knowledge, skills, and other competencies needed to perform its responsibilities (Standard 1210). These attributes include proficiency in applying internal audit standards, procedures, and techniques (PA 1210- 1). The IAA may use internal resources or external service providers that are qualified in such disciplines as accounting, auditing, economics, finance, statistics, information technology, engineering, taxation, law, environmental affairs, and other areas as needed to meet the IAA's responsibilities. Each member of the IAA, however, need not be qualified in all of these disciplines (PA 1210.Al-1).
4
1
35
An internal audit activity has scheduled an engagement relating to a construction contract. One
portion of this engagement will include comparing materials purchased with those specified in
the engineering drawings. The IAA does not have anyone on staff with sufficient expertise to
complete this procedure. The chief audit executive should



Delete the engagement from the schedule.
The engagement is within the scope of the IAA.
Perform the entire engagement using current staff.
Performing the engagement using the current (unqualified) staff is inappropriate.
Engage an engineering consultant to perform the comparison.
The IAA may use internal resources or external service providers that are qualified in such disciplines as accounting, auditing, economics, finance, statistics, information technology, engineering, taxation, law, environmental affairs, and other areas as needed to meet the IAA's responsibilities. Each member of the IAA, however, need not be qualified in all of these disciplines (PA 1210.Al -1). Thus, hiring an outside service provider is also necessary as an exercise of due professional care.
 Accepting the contractor's representations without adequate testing is inappropriate.
3
1
36
If the internal audit activity of a nonpublic company does not have the skills to perform a
particular task, an external service provider could be brought in from
I. The organization's external audit firm
II.	. An external consulting firm
III.	I. The engagement client
IV.	 A college or university



 land II only.
An ESP from a college or university is acceptable.
II and IV only.
An ESP from a nonpublic organization's external audit firm is acceptable.
I, II, and III only.
 An ESP from the engagement client is not independent.
 The IAA may use internal resources or ESPs that are qualified in such disciplines as accounting, auditing, economics, finance, statistics, information technology, engineering, taxation, law, environmental affairs, and other areas as needed to meet the IAA's responsibilities. Each member of the IAA, however, need not be qualified in all of these disciplines (PA 1210.A I -I). Qualified ESPs may be recruited from many sources. However, an ESP from the engagement client is unacceptable because the person would not be independent or objective.
4
1
37
A chief audit executive for a large manufacturer is considering revising the internal audit
activity's charter with respect to the minimum educational and experience qualifications
required. The CAE wants to require all staff auditors to possess specialized training in
accounting and a professional auditing certification such as the Certified Internal Auditor or the
Chartered Accountant (CA). One of the disadvantages of imposing this requirement is that the
policy



 Might negatively affect the internal audit activity's ability to perform quality engagements relating to the organization's financial and accounting systems.
The policy might result in better engagements relating to financial and accounting systems.   
Does not promote the professionalism of the internal audit activity.
 Setting minimum professional standards promotes professionalism.
Would prevent the internal audit activity from using external service providers when it did not have the knowledge, skills, and other competencies required in certain engagements.
This requirement does not affect use of ESPs.
The IAA must collectively possess or obtain the knowledge, skills, and other competencies needed to perform its responsibilities (Standard 12 l0). The IAA may use internal resources or external service providers that are qualified in the disciplines needed to meet its responsibilities. Each member of the IAA, however, need not be qualified in all of these disciplines (PA 1210.A I -I). Thus, the IAA should have an appropriate balance of experience, training, and skills to permit the performance of a wide range of services. However, internal auditors are encouraged to obtain professional certifications and qualifications (Interpretation of Standard 121 0).
4
1
38
A professional engineer applied for a position in the internal audit activity of a high technology
firm. The engineer became interested in the position after observing several internal auditors
while they were performing an engagement in the engineering department. The chief audit
executive



Should not hire the engineer because of the lack of knowledge of internal audit standards.
 Each new employee of an IAA is not required to have knowledge of internal audit standards. However, the IAA collectively must have this knowledge.
May hire the engineer despite the lack of knowledge of internal audit standards.
The IAA may use internal resources or external service providers that are qualified in such disciplines as accounting, auditing, economics, finance, statistics, information technology, engineering, taxation, law, environmental affairs, and other areas as needed to meet the IAA's responsibilities. Each member of the IAA, however, need not be qualified in all of these disciplines (PA 1210.A I -I).
Should not hire the engineer because of the lack of knowledge of accounting and taxes.
Each individual internal auditor is not required to have knowledge of accounting or taxes.
 The knowledge acquired by observation is irrelevant to the skills necessary for internal auditing.
2
1
39
Your organization has selected you to develop an internal audit activity (IAA). Your approach
will most likely be to hire



 Internal auditors each of whom possesses all the skills required to handle all engagements.
 The scope of internal auditing is so broad that one individual cannot have the requisite expertise in all areas.
Inexperienced personnel and train them the way the organization wants them trained.
The IAA should have personnel with various skill levels to permit appropriate matching of internal auditors with varying engagement complexities. Furthermore, experienced internal auditors should be available to train and supervise less experienced staff members.
Degreed accountants because most internal audit work is accounting related.
Many skills are needed in internal auditing. For example, computer skills are needed in engagements involving information technology.
The IAA must collectively possess or obtain the knowledge, skills, and other competencies needed to perform its responsibilities (Standard 12 1O). The IAA may use internal resources or external service providers that are qualified in such disciplines as accounting, auditing, economics, finance, statistics, information technology, engineering, taxation, law, environmental affairs, and other areas as needed to meet the IAA's responsibilities. Each member of the IAA, however, need not be qualified in all of these disciplines (PA 1210.Al-1).
4
1
40
Reasonable assurance should be obtained as to each prospective internal auditor's qualifications
and proficiency. Which of the following is the least useful application of this principle?
A.	
B.	
C.	
D.	


 Determining that all applicants have an accounting degree.
Internal auditors must possess the knowledge, skills, and other competencies needed to perform their individual responsibilities. The internal audit activity collectively must possess or obtain the knowledge, skills, and other competencies needed to perform its responsibilities (Standard 121 0). Each member of the IAA, however, need not be qualified in all disciplines (PA 1210.Al- I).   
Obtaining college transcripts.
 Obtaining college transcripts is an appropriate procedure to determine a prospective auditor's qualifications.
Checking an applicant's references.
Checking an applicant' s references is an appropriate procedure to determine a prospective auditor's qualifications.
Determining previous job experience is appropriate during the hiring process.
1
1
41
The internal audit activity collectively must possess or obtain certain competencies, including
proficiency in



Internal audit procedures and techniques.
These competencies include proficiency in applying internal audit standards, procedures, and techniques in performing engagements. Proficiency means the ability to apply knowledge to situations likely to be encountered and to deal with them without extensive recourse to technical research and assistance (PA 1210- I).
Accounting principles and techniques.
Only if internal auditors work extensively with financial records and reports must they have proficiency in accounting principles and techniques.
	Management principles.
The required competencies include an understanding of, not proficiency in, management principles.
Internal auditors ordinarily need not be proficient in marketing techniques.
1
1
42
42.The internal audit activity collectively must possess or obtain certain competencies, including
an understanding of



 Internal audit procedures and techniques.
  The required competencies include proficiency in, not an understanding of, internal audit standards, procedures, and techniques
Accounting principles and techniques. 
Only if internal auditors work extensively with financial records and reports must they have proficiency in accounting principles and techniques
Management principles
The required competencies include an understanding of management principles to recognize and evaluate the materiality and significance of deviations from good business practice. An understanding is the ability to apply broad knowledge to situations likely to be encountered, to recognize significant deviations, and to be able to carry out the research necessary to arrive at reasonable solutions (PA1210-1).
Internal auditors ordinarily need not be proficient in, or have an understanding or appreciation of, marketing techniques
3
1
43
Internal auditing is unique in that its scope often encompasses all areas of an organization. Thus, it is not possible for each internal auditor to possess detailed competence in all areas that might be the subject of engagements. Which of the following competencies must the internal audit activity possess collectively?

Understanding of taxation and law as it applies to operation of the organization.
Competencies referred to in Standard 1210 include only an appreciation of taxation and law.
Proficiency in accounting principles.
Only if internal auditors work extensively with financial records and reports must they have proficiency in accounting principles.
Understanding of management principles.
Internal auditors must possess the knowledge, skills, and other competencies needed to perform their individual responsibilities. The internal audit activity collectively must possess or obtain the knowledge, skills, and other competencies needed to perform its responsibilities (Standard 1210). These competencies include an understanding of management principles. An understanding is the ability to apply broad knowledge to situations likely to be encountered, to recognize significant deviations, and to 
The competencies referred to in Standard 1210 include knowledge of key IT risks and controls and available technology-based audit techniques (PA 1210). According to Standard 1210.A3, internal auditors must have sufficient knowledge of key IT risks and controls and available technology-based audit techniques to perform their assigned work. However, not all internal auditors are expected to have the expertise of an internal auditor whose primary responsibility is information technology auditing.
3
1
44
The internal audit activity collectively must possess or obtain certain competencies, including an appreciation of

Internal audit procedures and techniques
The required competencies include proficiency in applying internal audit standards, procedures, and techniques.
Accounting principles and techniques.
The required competencies include an appreciation of the fundamentals of business subjects, such as accounting, economics, commercial law, taxation, finance, quantitative methods, information technology, risk management, and fraud. An appreciation is the ability to recognize the existence of problems or potential problems and to identify the additional research to be undertaken or the assistance to be obtained. Only if internal auditors work extensively with financial records and reports must they have proficiency in accounting principles and techniques (PA 1210-1).
Management principles.
The required competencies include an understanding, not an appreciation, of management principles
Internal auditors ordinarily need not be proficient in, or have an understanding or appreciation of, marketing techniques.
2
1
45
The internal audit activity collectively must possess or obtain certain competencies, excluding

Proficiency in applying internal audit standards.
The required competencies include proficiency in applying internal audit standards, procedures, and techniques.
An understanding of management principles.
The required competencies include an understanding of management principles sufficient to recognize and evaluate the materiality and significance of deviations from good business practices
The ability to maintain good interpersonal relations
The required competencies include skills in dealing with people, understanding human relations, and maintaining satisfactory relationships with engagement clients.
 The required competencies include an appreciation of the fundamentals of business subjects, such as accounting, economics, commercial law, taxation, finance, quantitative methods, information technology, risk management, and fraud. An appreciation is the ability to recognize the existence of problems or potential problems and to determine the additional research to be undertaken or the assistance to be obtained (PA 1210-1).
4
1
46
The consultative approach to internal auditing emphasizes

Imposition of corrective measures.
 Imposition of changes implies an adversarial relationship.
Participation with engagement clients to improve methods.
Internal auditors need 'skills in dealing with people, understanding human relations, and maintaining satisfactory relationships with engagement clients' (PA 1210-1). A consultative approach to the engagement reflects the application of such skills. Consultation with the engagement client not only facilitates the planning and performance of the engagement but is a courtesy that enhances the internal auditor-client relationship. Developing a positive relationship produces a more favorable environment for the engagement effort. Moreover, involving the client in the engagement process is likely to increase acceptance of recommended changes.
Fraud investigation.
Consultation is less likely when the client is suspected of fraud.
 Internal auditors are not independent if they implement policies and procedures.
2
1
47
Communication skills are important to internal auditors. They should be able to convey effectively all of the following to engagement clients except

The objectives designed for a specific engagement.
 The internal auditors should be able to convey effectively engagement objectives.
The engagement evaluations based on a survey.
The internal auditors should be able to convey effectively engagement evaluations.
The risk assessment used in selecting the area for investigation.
Internal auditors must be skilled in oral and written communications so that they can clearly and effectively convey such matters as engagement objectives, evaluations, conclusions, and recommendations (PA 1210-1). However, the risk assessment is not necessarily a matter that must be communicated to an engagement client
 The internal auditors should be able to convey effectively engagement recommendations.
3
1
48
The CAE determines that an external service provider (ESP) possesses the necessary knowledge, skills, and other competencies to perform the engagement. The most effective procedure is

Considering the current compensation of the potential ESP
Considering the current compensation of the potential ESP relates to assessing independence and objectivity.
Verifying that no financial, organizational, or personal relationships will prevent the ESP from rendering impartial and unbiased judgments.
Verifying that no financial, organizational, or personal relationships will prevent the ESP from rendering impartial and unbiased judgments relates to assessing independence and objectivity.
Contacting others familiar with the ESP's work.
To evaluate the ESP's reputation, the CAE must interview independent sources. Previous customers or clients who are familiar with the ESP's work can provide feedback based on their direct experience. The consensus of these opinions is likely to be reliable.
Determining the financial interest the ESP may have in the organization relates to assessing independence and objectivity
3
1
49
The Standards require that internal auditors possess which of the following skills?
Internal auditors should understand human relations and be skilled in dealing with people. Internal auditors should be able to recognize and evaluate the materiality and significance of deviations from good business practices. Internal auditors should be experts on subjects such as economics, commercial law, taxation, finance, and information technology. Internal auditors should be skilled in oral and written communication.


II only.
Internal auditors also should understand human relations and be skilled in dealing with people and in oral and written communication.
I and III only.
Internal auditors are expected to have an appreciation of (not be experts in) fields related to their audit responsibilities. Moreover, internal auditors should be able to recognize and evaluate the materiality and significance of deviations from good business practices.
III and IV only.
Internal auditors must have an appreciation of, not expertise in, the fundamentals of fields related to their audit responsibilities. They also should understand human relations and be skilled in dealing with people. Furthermore, they should be able to recognize and evaluate the materiality and significance of deviations from good business practices.
Skills required by the Standards for internal auditors include Skills in dealing with people, understanding human relations, and maintaining satisfactory relationships with engagement clients. Skills in oral and written communications to clearly and effectively convey such matters as engagement objectives, evaluations, conclusions, and recommendations. An understanding of management principles to recognize and evaluate the materiality and significance of deviations from good business practices. An understanding means the ability to apply broad knowledge to situations likely to be encountered, to recognize significant deviations, and to be able to carry out the research necessary to arrive at reasonable solutions. An appreciation (not expertise) of the fundamentals of business subjects such as accounting, economics, commercial law, taxation, finance, quantitative methods, information technology, risk management, and fraud. An appreciation means the ability to recognize the existence of problems or potential problems and to identify the additional research to be undertaken or the assistance to be obtained. (PA 1210-1)
4
1
50
A chief audit executive (CAE) has been requested by the audit committee to conduct an engagement at a chemical factory as soon as possible. The engagement will include reviews of health, safety, and environmental (HSE) management and processes. The CAE knows that the internal audit activity does not possess the HSE knowledge necessary to conduct such an engagement. The CAE must

Begin the engagement and incorporate HSE training into next year's planning to prepare for a follow-up engagement.
The CAE should not begin the audit without notifying the audit committee of the knowledge issue and attempting to resolve it.
Suggest to the audit committee that the factory's own HSE staff conduct the engagement.
A review by the factory's HSE staff will not provide the audit committee with an independent review
Seek permission from the audit committee to obtain appropriate support from an HSE professional.
'The internal audit activity collectively must possess or obtain the knowledge, skills, and other competencies needed to perform its responsibilities' (Standard 1210). Moreover, 'The chief audit executive must obtain competent advice and assistance if the internal auditors lack the knowledge, skills, or other competencies needed to perform all or part of the engagement' (Standard 1210.A1).
Delaying the engagement may have serious consequences given the nature of the HSE issues involved.
3
1
51
A chief audit executive (CAE) for a very small internal audit department has just received a request from management to perform an audit of an extremely complex area in which the CAE and the department have no expertise. The nature of the audit engagement is within the scope of internal audit activities. Management has expressed a desire to have the engagement conducted in the very near future because of the high level of risk involved. Which of the following responses by the CAE would be in violation of the Standards?

Discuss with management the possibility of outsourcing the audit of this complex area.
Outsourcing (delegating the engagement to an outside service provider) is an appropriate response when auditors do not possess the needed background or skills and cannot develop such skills in a timely fashion.
Add an outside consultant to the audit staff to assist in the performance of the audit engagement.
Adding a consultant (cosourcing) is an appropriate response when auditors do not possess the needed background or skills and cannot develop such skills in a timely fashion
Accept the audit engagement and begin immediately, since it is a high-risk area.
The IAA must collectively possess or obtain the knowledge, skills, and other competencies needed to perform its responsibilities (Standard 1210). The auditors in this situation do not have such expertise. Planning and executing the audit engagement without the appropriate background and skills is a violation of Attribute Standard 1210.
Determining whether time is sufficient to develop necessary expertise is an appropriate response. Internal auditors should be committed to life-long learning. Thus, it is not unreasonable to require them to expand their knowledge, skills, and other competencies
3
1
52
When hiring entry-level internal auditing staff, which of the following will most likely predict the applicant's success as an internal auditor?

Grade point average on college accounting courses.
Although accounting educational performance is undoubtedly one criterion that must be examined, performance in one subject area is much too limited a basis for predicting an applicant's success given the broad scope of internal auditing work.
Ability to fit well socially into a group.
Social skills are a benefit to any internal auditor but cannot be considered the most important characteristic of a good candidate.
Ability to organize and express thoughts well.
Internal auditors must have skills in oral and written communications to clearly and effectively convey such matters as engagement objectives, evaluations, conclusions, and recommendations (PA 1210-1).
Entry-level internal auditors typically have relatively little knowledge of the organization. Applicants should demonstrate a general knowledge of the organization, but this factor is not the most reliable predictor of successful performance as an internal auditor.
3
1
53
When the engagement was assigned, management asked the internal auditor to evaluate the appropriateness of using self-insurance to minimize risk to the organization. Given the scope of the engagement requested by management, should the internal auditor engage an actuarial consultant to assist in the engagement if these skills do not exist on staff?

No. The internal audit activity is skilled in assessing controls, and the insurance control concepts are not distinctly different from other control concepts.
Assessing self-insurance controls is outside the normal scope of the IAA. The internal auditor may need to engage an actuary.
No. It is a normal internal auditor function to assess risk; this engagement is therefore not unique
Assessing self-insurance risks is outside the normal scope of the IAA. The internal auditor may need to engage an actuary.
Yes. An actuary is essential to determine whether the healthcare costs are reasonable.
An internal auditor might be able to determine whether the healthcare costs are reasonable
The CAE must obtain competent advice and assistance if the internal audit staff lacks the knowledge, skills, or other competencies needed to perform all or part of the engagement (Standard 1210.A1). Furthermore, the IAA may use external service providers or internal sources that are qualified in disciplines such as accounting, auditing, economics, finance, statistics, information technology, engineering, taxation, law, and environmental affairs, and other areas as needed to meet the IAA's responsibilities (PA 1210.A1-1). Thus, unless the IAA has an employee with actuarial skills, an actuarial consultant should be hired to assess self-insurance risks.
4
1
54
Internal auditors must possess the knowledge, skills, and other competencies essential to the performance of their individual responsibilities. Consequently, all internal auditors should be proficient in applying

Internal auditing standards.
All internal auditors should be proficient in applying internal auditing standards, procedures, and techniques required in performing engagements. Proficiency means the ability to apply knowledge to situations likely to be encountered and to deal with them without extensive recourse to technical research and assistance (PA 1210-1).
Quantitative methods.
 Internal auditors must have an appreciation of, not proficiency in, the fundamentals of business subjects such as quantitative methods.
Management principles.
Internal auditors must have an understanding of, not proficiency in, management principles to recognize and evaluate the materiality and significance of deviations from good business practices.
Internal auditors must have an appreciation of, not proficiency in, the fundamentals of business subjects such as accounting, economics, commercial law, taxation, finance, quantitative methods, information technology, risk management, and fraud.
1
1
55
The internal audit activity is considering hiring a person who has a thorough understanding of internal auditing techniques, accounting, and principles of management but has nonspecialized knowledge of economics and information technology. Hiring the person is most appropriate if

A professional development program is agreed to in advance of actual hiring.
Regardless of their backgrounds, all internal auditors must enhance their knowledge, skills, and other competencies through continuing professional development (Standard 1230).
A mentor is assigned to ensure completion of an individually designed professional development program
The use of a mentor is encouraged, regardless of the new internal auditor's background.
Other internal auditors possess sufficient knowledge of economics and information technology.
Internal auditors must possess the knowledge, skills, and other competencies needed to perform their individual responsibilities (Standard 1210). The internal audit activity collectively must possess or obtain the knowledge, skills, and other competencies needed to perform its responsibilities. Furthermore, each member of the IAA need not be qualified in all disciplines. The IAA may use external service providers or internal sources who are qualified in such disciplines as accounting, auditing, economics, finance, statistics, information technology, engineering, taxation, law, environmental affairs, and other areas as needed to meet the IAA's responsibilities (PA1210.A1-1).
Unless other internal auditors possess sufficient knowledge of these competencies, hiring this person would accentuate staffing deficiencies.
3
1
56
An internal auditor must have the knowledge, skills, and other competencies needed to perform their individual responsibilities. Which of the following properly describes the level of knowledge, skill, or other competency required?&nbsp; Internal auditors must have

Proficiency in applying internal auditing standards and procedures without extensive recourse to technical research and assistance.
An internal auditor must be proficient in applying internal auditing standards, procedures, and techniques in performing engagements. Proficiency means the ability to apply knowledge to situations likely to be encountered and to deal with them without extensive recourse to technical research and assistance (PA 1210-1).
Proficiency in applying knowledge of accounting and information technology to specific or potential problems.
An appreciation of the fundamentals of, not proficiency in, information technology is required. Proficiency in accounting principles and techniques is required only if the internal auditor works extensively with financial records and reports.
An understanding of broad techniques used in supporting and developing engagement observations and the ability to research the proper procedures to be used in any engagement situation.
Proficiency in, not an understanding of, internal auditing standards, procedures, and techniques is required.
Proficiency in, not an appreciation of, accounting principles and techniques is required when the internal auditor works extensively with financial records and reports.
1
1
57
As part of the process to improve internal auditor-engagement client relations, it is very important to deal with how the internal audit activity is perceived. Certain types of attitudes in the work performed will help create these perceptions. From a management perspective, which attitude is likely to be the most conducive to a positive perception?

Objective.
Objectivity is desirable but, by itself, will not lead to a more positive relationship.
Investigative
An investigative attitude is not likely to enhance the relationship.
Interrogatory.
An interrogatory attitude is not likely to enhance the relationship.
Internal auditors need 'skills in dealing with people, understanding human relations, and maintaining satisfactory relationships with engagement clients' (PA 1210-1). A consultative approach to the engagement reflects the application of such skills. A consultative attitude leads to two-way communication. Consultation considers the client's viewpoint, helps to dispel fear and mistrust, and demonstrates the value of internal auditing to the client.
4
1
58
An auditor is scheduled to audit payroll controls for an organization that has recently outsourced its information processing to an external service provider (ESP). What action should the auditor take, considering the outsourcing decision?

Review the controls over payroll in both the organization and the ESP.
 Engagements involving third parties may be necessary when vital controls affecting transactions exist outside the organization. One example is the outsourcing of the organization's information processing function to an external service provider (ESP). Although the processing is being performed outside the organization, the ESP is an extension of the organization's information systems. As a result, control risk may be higher because an external organization's controls are part of the organization's controls. Also, the recency of the change and the complexity of communicating between the organization and the ESP increase the risk.
Review only the organization's controls over data sent to and received from the ESP.
The internal controls at the ESP and the user organization interact with each other. Both must be reviewed.
Review only the controls over payments to the ESP based on the contract.
Reviewing only the controls over payments to the ESP based on the contract narrows the scope of the engagement.
Controls must be evaluated regardless of their location.
1
1
59
An internal auditor's objectivity could be compromised in all of the following situations except

A conflict of interest.
An auditor should report any situation in which a conflict of interest or bias is present or may reasonably be inferred. The CAE should then reassign any such auditor (PA 1130-1).
An engagement client's familiarity with the internal auditor due to lack of rotation in assignments.
Staff assignments should be rotated periodically.
The internal auditor's assumption of operational duties on a temporary basis.
Assuming operational duties compromises an internal auditor's objectivity with respect to that activity (PA1130.A1-1).
The CAE is responsible for all significant professional judgments made during the engagement (PA 2340-1). Thus, the CAE should obtain competent advice and assistance if the internal audit staff lacks the knowledge, skills, or other competencies needed to perform all or part of the engagement (Standard 1210.A1). Consulting an outside service provider is therefore appropriate in these circumstances
2
1
60
In exercising due professional care, internal auditors must consider which of the following?
The relative complexity, materiality, or significance of matters to which assurance procedures are applied The extent of assurance procedures necessary to ensure that all significant risks will be identified The probability of significant errors, irregularities, or noncompliance


I and II only.
The internal auditors need not consider the extent of assurance procedures necessary to ensure that all significant risks will be identified when exercising due professional care. But the internal auditors must consider the probability of significant errors, irregularities, or noncompliance.
II and III only.
The internal auditors need not consider the extent of assurance procedures necessary to ensure that all significant risks will be identified when exercising due professional care. But the internal auditors must consider the relative complexity, materiality, or significance of matters to which assurance procedures are applied.
I and III only.
 According to Standard 1220.A1, internal auditors must exercise due professional care by considering the Extent of work needed to achieve the engagement's objectives Relative complexity, materiality, or significance of matters to which assurance procedures are applied Adequacy and effectiveness of governance, risk management, and control processes Probability of significant errors, fraud, or noncompliance Cost of assurance in relation to potential benefits Assurance procedures alone, even when performed with due professional care, do not guarantee that all significant risks will be identified (Standard 1220.A3).
The internal auditors need not consider the extent of assurance procedures necessary to ensure that all significant risks will be identified when exercising due professional care.
3
1
61
Internal auditors must exercise due professional care in conducting a consulting engagement by considering
Expectations of clients Benefits in the form of compensation to be derived from the engagement Cost of the engagement


I and II only.
The cost of the engagement but not the benefits in the form of compensation to be derived from the engagement must be considered.
II and III only.
The expectations of clients but not the benefits in the form of compensation to be derived from the engagement must be considered.
I and III only.
The internal auditor must exercise due professional care during a consulting engagement by considering the (1) needs and expectations of clients, including the nature, timing, and communication of engagement results; (2) relative complexity and extent of work needed to achieve the engagement's objectives; and (3) cost of the consulting engagement in relation to potential benefits (Standard 1220.C1). Any benefit related to compensation for the engagement is not one of the considerations for an internal auditor who is exercising due professional care.
 The benefits in the form of compensation to be derived from the engagement are not relevant to the exercise of due professional care.
3
1
62
Which of the following statements is true with respect to due professional care?

An internal auditor should perform detailed tests of all transactions before communicating results.
An internal auditor must conduct reasonable examinations and verifications, but detailed tests of all transactions are not required.
An item should not be mentioned in an engagement communication unless the internal auditor is absolutely certain of the item.
Absolute assurance need not, and cannot, be given.
An engagement communication should never be viewed as providing an infallible truth about a subject.
Due professional care implies reasonable care and competence, not infallibility or extraordinary performance. Thus, it requires the internal auditor to conduct examinations and verifications to a reasonable extent. Accordingly, internal auditors cannot give absolute assurance that noncompliance or irregularities do not exist. Nevertheless, the possibility of material irregularities or noncompliance needs to be considered whenever an internal auditor undertakes an internal audit assignment (PA 1220-1).
An internal auditor must recommend improvements to promote conformance with acceptable procedures and practices.
3
1
63
An internal auditor observes that a receivables clerk has physical access to and control of cash receipts. The auditor worked with the clerk several years before and has a high level of trust in the individual. Accordingly, the auditor notes in the engagement working papers that controls over receipts are adequate. Has the auditor exercised due professional care?

Yes, reasonable care has been taken
The auditor's engagement observation is inappropriate given the lack of segregation of functions.
No, irregularities were not noted.
 No indication is given that irregularities have occurred.
No, alertness to conditions most likely indicative of irregularities was not shown.
These facts indicate that the internal auditor has failed to exercise due professional care. Internal auditors must be alert to those conditions and activities where irregularities are most likely to occur and must identify inadequate controls (PA 1220-1). Cash has a high degree of inherent risk and should therefore be subject to stringent controls. Access to cash and the record-keeping functions should be separated regardless of the personal qualities of the individuals involved. That the internal auditor trusts the clerk is irrelevant. Management still needs to be aware that internal control over receivables is inadequate.
Following instructions by rote is unacceptable. Professional judgment and alertness are necessary.
3
1
64
Due professional care implies reasonable care and competence, not infallibility or extraordinary performance. Thus, which of the following is unnecessary?

The conduct of examinations and verifications to a reasonable extent.
Examination and verification need only be undertaken to a reasonable extent.
The conduct of extensive examinations.
Due professional care implies reasonable care and competence, not infallibility or extraordinary performance. It requires the internal auditor to conduct examinations and verifications to a reasonable extent. Accordingly, internal auditors cannot give absolute assurance that noncompliance or irregularities do not exist. Nevertheless, the possibility of material irregularities or noncompliance needs to be considered whenever an internal auditor undertakes an internal audit assignment (PA 1220-1).
The reasonable assurance that compliance does exist.
An internal auditor cannot give absolute assurance.
The possibility of material irregularities must be considered.
2
1
65
An internal auditor judged an item to be immaterial when planning an assurance engagement. However, the assurance engagement may still include the item if it is subsequently determined that

Sufficient staff is available.
 In the absence of other considerations, devoting additional engagement effort to an immaterial item is inefficient.
Adverse effects related to the item are likely to occur.
Internal auditors must exercise due professional care by considering the relative complexity, materiality, or significance of matters to which assurance procedures are applied (Standard 1220.A1). Materiality judgments are made in the light of all the circumstances and involve qualitative as well as quantitative considerations. Moreover, internal auditors also must consider the interplay of risk with materiality. Consequently, engagement effort may be required for a quantitatively immaterial item if adverse effects are likely to occur, for example, a material contingent liability arising from an illegal payment that is otherwise immaterial
Related information is reliable.
Additional engagement procedures might not be needed if related information is reliable.
The item is more likely to be included if it affects recurring income items rather than miscellaneous income.
2
1
66
The internal audit activity can perform an important role in preventing and detecting significant fraud by being assigned all but which one of the following tasks?

Review large, abnormal, or unexplained expenditures.
To prevent or detect significant fraud, the internal auditor should review large, abnormal, or unexplained expenditures.
Review sensitive expenses, such as legal fees, consultant fees, and foreign sales commissions
To prevent or detect significant fraud, the internal auditor should review sensitive expenses.
Review every control feature pertaining to petty cash receipts.
The internal auditor must exercise due professional care by considering the relative complexity, materiality, or significance of matters to which assurance procedures are applied. The cost of assurance in relation to potential benefits also should be considered (Standard1220.A1). Hence, an exhaustive review of petty cash is not an efficient and effective use of limited IAA resources because it will not prevent or detect significant fraud. The amount of any theft of petty cash will not be substantial.
 To prevent or detect significant fraud, the internal auditor should review unusual contributions.
2
1
67
Assurance engagements must be performed with proficiency and due professional care. Accordingly, the Standards require internal auditors to
Consider the probability of significant noncompliance Perform assurance procedures with due professional care so that all significant risks are identified Weigh the cost of assurance against the benefits


I and II only.
Assurance procedures alone, even when performed with due professional care, do not guarantee that all significant risks will be identified. Moreover, internal auditors must weigh the cost of assurance against the benefits.
I and III only.
 Standard 1220.A1 states that the exercise of due professional care involves considering the (1) extent of work needed to achieve engagement's objectives; (2) relative complexity, materiality, or significance of matters to which assurance procedures are applied; (3) adequacy and effectiveness of governance, risk management, and control processes; (4) probability of significant errors, fraud, or noncompliance; and (5) cost of assurance in relation to the benefits. Moreover, internal auditors must be alert to the significant risks that might affect objectives, operations, or resources (Standard 1220.A3). However, assurance procedures alone, even when performed with due professional care, do not guarantee that all significant risks will be identified.
II and III only.
Assurance procedures alone, even when performed with due professional care, do not guarantee that all significant risks will be identified. Furthermore, internal auditors must consider the probability of significant noncompliance.
 Assurance procedures alone, even when performed with due professional care, do not guarantee that all significant risks will be identified.
2
1
68
To ensure that due professional care has been taken at all times during an engagement, the internal auditor should always

Ensure that all financial information related to the audit is included in the audit plan and examined for nonconformance or irregularities.
 The automatic inclusion of relevant financial information in an audit plan does not guarantee that due professional care has been taken for the audit as a whole.
Ensure that all audit tests are fully documented.
 Keeping detailed working papers does not ensure that due professional care has been taken during the tests.
Consider the possibility of nonconformance or irregularities at all times during an engagement.
Due professional care implies reasonable care and competence, not infallibility or extraordinary performance. Thus, due professional care requires the internal auditor to conduct examinations and verifications to a reasonable extent. Accordingly, internal auditors cannot give absolute assurance that noncompliance or irregularities do not exist. Nevertheless, the possibility of material irregularities or noncompliance needs to be considered whenever the internal auditor undertakes an internal auditing assignment (PA 1220-1). Thus, considering the possibility of nonconformance or material irregularities at all times during an engagement is the only way of demonstrating that due professional care has been taken in an internal audit assignment.
Due professional care does not require that immaterial instances of noncompliance or irregularity be reported to the audit committee.
3
1
69
A staff internal auditor performed a portion of an engagement to review an organization's marketing function. In particular, the internal auditor evaluated the function's effective and efficient use of resources to identify
Underused facilities Overstaffing or understaffing Nonproductive work Procedures that were not cost justified
To test for underused facilities, the internal auditor performed a complete walk-through of all spaces assigned to the marketing function and evaluated the use of both space and capital equipment. The internal auditor analyzed reports on space usage for the last year and concluded that facilities were neither underused nor used at maximum capacity.
To test for overstaffing or understaffing, the internal auditor compared current staffing levels with a staffing analysis recently completed by an independent contractor. Because the staffing analysis used work standards and service demands to provide factual and reliable information on staffing requirements, the internal auditor was able to conclude that staffing levels were optimal.
To test for nonproductive work, the internal auditor interviewed an employee from each level, and, based upon their responses, concluded that no significant amount of nonproductive work was being performed. Thus, the internal auditor concluded that additional engagement work to search for procedures that were not cost justified would not be necessary.
In reference to requirements I and II, due professional care


Was exercised because the internal auditor applied reasonable care and competence in both areas.
Due professional care implies reasonable care and competence, not infallibility or extraordinary performance. Thus, due professional care requires the internal auditor to conduct examinations and verifications to a reasonable extent. Accordingly, internal auditors cannot give absolute assurance that noncompliance or irregularities do not exist. Nevertheless, the possibility of material irregularities or noncompliance needs to be considered whenever the internal auditor undertakes an internal audit assignment (PA 1220-1). Accordingly, the work performed with regard to facilities usage and staffing was adequate and would withstand normal scrutiny.
Was not exercised because the internal auditor failed to apply reasonable care regarding requirement II.
The work performed in both areas was adequate and would withstand normal scrutiny.
Was not exercised because the internal auditor failed to apply reasonable care regarding requirements I and II
 The work performed in both areas was adequate and would withstand normal scrutiny.
 The work performed in both areas was adequate and would withstand normal scrutiny.
1
1
70
A staff internal auditor performed a portion of an engagement to review an organization's marketing function. In particular, the internal auditor evaluated the function's effective and efficient use of resources to identify
Underused facilities Overstaffing or understaffing Nonproductive work Procedures that were not cost justified
To test for underused facilities, the internal auditor performed a complete walk-through of all spaces assigned to the marketing function and evaluated the use of both space and capital equipment. The internal auditor analyzed reports on space usage for the last year and concluded that facilities were neither underused nor used at maximum capacity.
To test for overstaffing or understaffing, the internal auditor compared current staffing levels with a staffing analysis recently completed by an independent contractor. Because the staffing analysis used work standards and service demands to provide factual and reliable information on staffing requirements, the internal auditor was able to conclude that staffing levels were optimal.
To test for nonproductive work, the internal auditor interviewed an employee from each level, and, based upon their responses, concluded that no significant amount of nonproductive work was being performed. Thus, the internal auditor concluded that additional engagement work to search for procedures that were not cost justified would not be necessary.
In reference to requirements III and IV, due professional care


Was exercised because the internal auditor applied reasonable care and competence in both areas.
Due professional care was not exercised in regard to requirements III and IV.
Was not exercised because the internal auditor failed to apply reasonable care and competence regarding requirement III
Due professional care was not exercised in regard to requirements III and IV
Was not exercised because the internal auditor failed to apply reasonable care and competence regarding both requirements III and IV
The procedures performed as a basis for concluding that no nonproductive work was accomplished resulted in a failure to identify sufficient, reliable, relevant, and useful information to achieve the engagement's objectives (Standard 2310). The opinions of individuals whose work was in question lacks reliability. Given that the information regarding area IV was based on that for area III, it also is suspect.
Due professional care was not exercised in regard to requirements III and IV.
3
1
71
An organization has two manufacturing facilities. Each facility has two manufacturing processes and a separate packaging process. The processes are similar at both facilities. Raw materials used include aluminum, materials to make plastic, various chemicals, and solvents. Pollution occurs at several operational stages, including raw materials handling and storage, process chemical use, finished goods handling, and disposal. Waste products produced during the manufacturing processes include several that are considered hazardous. The nonhazardous waste is transported to the local landfill. An outside waste vendor is used for the treatment, storage, and disposal of all hazardous waste. Management is aware of the need for compliance with environmental laws. The organization recently developed an environmental policy including a statement that each employee is responsible for compliance with environmental laws.
If the internal audit activity is assigned the responsibility of conducting an environmental audit, which of the following actions should be performed first?


Conduct risk assessments for each site.
The internal auditors should conduct risk assessments for each site only after qualified people have been assigned to the project.
Review organizational policies and procedures and verify compliance.
Audit procedures to verify compliance with company policies and procedures are performed only after an audit staff with the needed knowledge, skills, and other competencies is assigned to the audit.
Provide the assigned staff with technical training.
All internal audit engagements must be performed with proficiency and due professional care. The internal audit activity collectively must possess or obtain the necessary knowledge, skills, and other competencies needed to conduct the audit properly. Thus, providing the assigned staff with adequate training or employing qualified external service providers is a first step in an environmental audit.
Internal auditors should review the environmental management system only after qualified people have been assigned to the project.
3
1
72
With regard to the exercise of due professional care, an internal auditor should

Consider the relative materiality or significance of matters to which assurance procedures are applied.
Exercising due professional care means applying the care and skill expected of a reasonably prudent and competent internal auditor (Standard 1220). According to Standard 1220.A1, the internal auditor must consider the 'Extent of work needed to achieve the engagement's objectives; Relative complexity, materiality, or significance of matters to which assurance procedures are applied; Adequacy and effectiveness of governance, risk management, and control processes; Probability of significant errors, fraud, or noncompliance; and Cost of assurance in relation to potential benefits.'
Emphasize the potential benefits of an engagement without regard to the cost.
The internal auditor should consider the cost in relation to the benefits before beginning an engagement.
Consider whether criteria have been established to determine whether goals are achieved, not whether those criteria are adequate.
Adequate criteria are needed to evaluate controls. Internal auditors must ascertain the extent to which management has established adequate criteria to determine whether objectives and goals have been accomplished. If adequate, internal auditors must use such criteria in their evaluation. If inadequate, internal auditors must work with management to develop appropriate evaluation criteria' (Standard 2210.A3).
Internal auditors cannot give absolute assurance that noncompliance or irregularities do not exist (PA 1220-1).
1
1
73
An internal auditor must exercise due professional care in performing engagements. Due professional care includes

Establishing direct communication between the chief audit executive and the board.
Such communication promotes the independence of the IAA rather than the performance of engagements with due professional care
Evaluating established operating standards and determining whether those standards are adequate
In the exercise of due professional care, an internal auditor must, among other things, consider the adequacy and effectiveness of governance, risk management, and control processes (Standard 1220.A1). Furthermore, adequate criteria are needed to evaluate controls. Thus, internal auditors must ascertain the extent to which management has established adequate criteria to determine whether objectives and goals have been accomplished (Standard 2210.A3).
Accumulating sufficient information so that the internal auditor can give absolute assurance that irregularities do not exist.
Assurance procedures alone, even when performed with due professional care, cannot guarantee that all significant risks will be identified (Standard1220.A3
Establishing suitable criteria of education and experience for filling internal auditing positions pertains to proficiency, not due professional care.
2
1
74
An internal auditor has some suspicion of, but no information about, potential misstatement of financial statements. The internal auditor fails to exercise due professional care by

Identifying potential ways in which a misstatement could occur and ranking the items for investigation
Ranking the ways in which a misstatement could occur is consistent with the due professional care standard.
Informing the engagement manager of the suspicions and asking for advice on how to proceed.
Seeking advice is consistent with exercising the standard of due professional care.
Not testing for possible misstatement because the engagement work program had already been approved by engagement management.
'Internal auditors must apply the care and skill expected of a reasonably prudent and competent internal auditor. Due professional care does not imply infallibility' (Standard 1220). Engagement work programs are expected to be modified to reflect changing circumstances. Thus, the internal auditor fails to exercise due professional care by not investigating a suspected misstatement solely because the work program had already been approved.
The internal auditor does not need the engagement client's approval to expand the engagement work program.
3
1
75
Due professional care calls for

Detailed reviews of all transactions related to a particular function.
 Detailed reviews of all transactions are not required.
Infallibility and extraordinary performance when the system of internal control is known to be weak.
Reasonable care and skill, not infallibility or extraordinary performance, are necessary.
Consideration of the possibility of material irregularities during every engagement.
Due care implies reasonable care and competence, not infallibility or extraordinary performance. Due care requires the internal auditor to conduct examinations and verifications to a reasonable extent, but does not require detailed reviews of all transactions. Accordingly, internal auditors cannot give absolute assurance that noncompliance or irregularities do not exist. Nevertheless, the possibility of material irregularities or noncompliance should be considered whenever an internal auditor undertakes an internal auditing assignment (PA 1220-1).
 Only reasonable, not absolute, assurance can be given.
3
1
76
A certified internal auditor performed an assurance engagement to review a department store's cash function. Which of the following actions will be deemed lacking in due professional care?

Organizational records were reviewed to determine whether all employees who handle cash receipts and disbursements were bonded.
 This review is a standard procedure.
A flowchart of the entire cash function was developed, but only a sample of transactions was tested.
Sampling is permissible. Detailed reviews of all transactions are often not required or feasible.
The final engagement communication included a well-supported recommendation for the reduction in staff, although it was known that such a reduction would adversely affect morale.
In exercising due professional care, internal auditors should be alert to inefficiency.
Internal auditors do not guarantee the absence of fraud. They are responsible for exercising due professional care, which includes evaluating the risk management, control, and governance processes that prevent or detect fraud and being alert to the significant risks that might affect objectives, operations, or resources (Standards 1220.A1 and 1220.A2). However, internal auditors cannot give absolute assurance that noncompliance or irregularities do not exist (PA1220-1).
4
1
77
Internal auditors are responsible for continuing their education to maintain their proficiency. Which of the following is true regarding the continuing education requirements of the practicing internal auditor?

Internal auditors are required to obtain 40hours of continuing professional education each year and a minimum of 120 hours over a 3-year period.
The Standards do not state formal hour requirements for internal auditors. The intent of the Standards is to provide flexibility in meeting the requirements
CIAs have formal requirements that must be met in order to continue as CIAs.
Internal auditors must enhance their knowledge, skills, and other competencies through continuing professional development (Standard 1230). To maintain the CIA designation, the CIA must commit to a formal program of continu
Attendance, as an officer or committee member, at formal Institute of Internal Auditors meetings does not meet the criteria of continuing professional development.
Continuing education may be obtained by participation in professional organizations.
Prior approval by The IIA is not necessary for CPE courses.
2
1
78
Standardized working papers are often used, chiefly because they allow working papers to be prepared more

Efficiently.
Use of standardized (pro forma) working papers improves engagement efficiency by diminishing the time spent in their preparation. For example, standard forms may be developed for the engagement work program listing, records of the results of interviews, and worksheets.
Professionally.
Standard forms do not necessarily result in greater professionalism.
Neatly.
Standard forms clearly reduce time spent in working-paper preparation but do not necessarily result in greater neatness.
Standard forms do not necessarily result in greater accuracy.
1
1
79
During an engagement to evaluate the organisations accounts payable function,an internal auditor plans to confirm balances with suppliers. What is the source of authority for such contacts with units outside the organization? 
Internal audit activity policies and procedures.	
The Standards.
The Code of Ethics.
The internal audit activity's charter.
4
Question Explanation
2
Policies and procedures guide the internal auditors in their consistent compliance with the internal audit activity's standards of performance.
The IAA's authority is defined in a charter approved by the board.
The purpose of the Code of Ethics is to promote an ethical culture in the profession of internal auditing.
The purpose, authority, and responsibility of the internal audit activity must be formally defined in an internal audit charter consistent with the Definition of Internal Auditing, the Code of Ethics, and the Standards (Standard 1000). The charter establishes the internal audit activity's position within the organization, including the nature of the chief audit executive's functional reporting relationship with the board; authorizes access to records, personnel, and physical properties relevant to the performance of engagements; and defines the scope of internal audit activities (Interpretation of Standard 1000). Thus, the charter prescribes the internal audit activity's relationships with other units within the organization and with those outside.
80
Which of the following are good tools for marketing the internal audit activity within theo rganization?
Leading a program of the organization, such as a charitable activity. 	 
Distributing bulletins that highlight current findings.
Including articles in an organizational publication showing the human side of internal auditors.
All answers are correct.
4
Question Explanation
2
Distributing bulletins that highlight current findings and including articles in an organizational publication showing the human side of internal auditors also are good marketing tools. 
Leading a program, such as a charitable activity, and including articles in an organizational publication showing the human side of internal auditors also are good marketing tools. 
Leading a program, such as a charitable activity, and distributing bulletins that highlight current findings also are good marketing tools. 
Many managers and workers regard the internal auditor as the resident critic and hence the enemy. To make audits easier, internal auditors should attempt to market themselves to the rest of the organization as a management-oriented resource (Sawyer, 5th Edition). Client training, quality programs, initiating organizational programs (e.g., civic or charitable activities), distributing newsletters, and including stories in organizational publications are tools for marketing the internal audit activity. 
81
The board of an organization has charged the chief audit executive (CAE) with upgrading the
internal audit activity. The CAE&quot;s first task is to develop a charter. What item should be
included in the statement of objectives?

 Report all engagement results to the board every quarter.
Notify governmental regulatory agencies of unethical business practices by organization management.
Evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of the organization's controls.
Submit budget variance reports to management every month.
3
Question Explanation
2
significant engagement results are discussed with the board. 
Internal auditors ordinarily are not required to report deficiencies in regulatory compliance to the appropriate agencies. However, they must observe the law and make disclosures expected by the law and profession (Rule of Conduct I .2).
The purpose, authority, and responsibility of the internal audit activity must be formally defined in a charter approved by the board (Standard I OOO). The charter establishes the internal audit activity's position within the organization, including the nature of the chief audit executive's functional reporting relationship with the board; authorizes access to records, personnel, and physical properties relevant to the performance of engagements; and defines the scope of internal audit activities (Interpretation of Standard I OOO). According to the Definition of Internal Auditing, it brings a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluating and improving risk management, control, and governance processes.
Submission of budgetary variance reports is not a primary objective of internal auditing. It is a budgetary control that management may require on a periodic basis.
82
An element of authority that must be included in the charter of the internal audit activity is
A.	
B.	
C.	
D.	

 Identification of the organizational units where engagements are to be performed.
Identification of the types of disclosures that should be made to the board.
Access to records, personnel, and physical properties relevant to the performance of engagements.
Access to the external auditor's engagement records.
3
Question Explanation
2
The charter need not specifically identify the subjects of engagements. 
Disclosure to the board is an obligation, not an element of authority. 
The purpose, authority, and responsibility of the internal audit activity must be defined in a charter (Standard IOOO). The charter establishes the internal audit activity's position within the organization, including the nature of the chief audit executive's functional reporting relationship with the board; authorizes access to records, personnel, and physical properties relevant to the performance of engagements; and defines the scope of internal audit activities (Interpretation of Standard I OOO). 
Access to the external auditor's engagement records cannot be guaranteed. 
83
The authority of the internal audit activity is limited to that granted by	

 The board and the controller.
Senior management and the Standards.
Management and the board.
The board and the chief financial officer.
3
Question Explanation
2
The controller is not the only member of management.
The Standards provide no actual authority to the IAA.
The purpose, authority, and responsibility of the internal audit activity must be formally defined in a charter. The CAE must periodically review and present the charter to senior management and the board for approval (Standard IOOO). 
. Management and the board, not a particular manager, give the IAA its authority. 
84
Which of the following abilities is not important in marketing internal auditing to
management?

Explaining the current use of internal auditing software to executive management.	 
Preparing engagement communications competently and professionally.
Knowing what executive management wants the internal auditors to do.
Knowing whom the internal auditors serve as customers.
1
Question Explanation
2
. Selling internal auditing entails understanding who the customers are and what products they want. One aspect of the product desired by management and delivered by the internal auditors is competence and professionalism in the rendition of services. A second aspect of that product is a managerial as well as a financial emphasis. Thus, engagement communications should be helpful in evaluating operations. A third aspect of the internal auditors' product is the ability to extend management's ability to control daily operations. However, knowing about current internal auditing software is irrelevant to executive management. 
The ability of the internal auditors to perform competently and professionally is an important marketing tool. 
 The ability of the internal auditors to know what their customers want is an important marketing tool. 
. The ability of the internal auditors to identify their customers is an important marketing tool. 
85
A charter is one of the more important factors positively affecting the internal audit activity&quot;s
independence. Which of the following is least likely to be part of the charter?

Access to records within the organization.	 
The scope of internal audit activities.
The length of tenure of the chief audit executive.
Access to personnel within the organization.
3
Question Explanation
2
The charter establishes the IAA's position within the organization and authorizes access to records. 
The charter establishes the IAA's position within the organization and defines the scope of internal audit activities. 
The length of the CAE's employment is less significant than defining the purpose, authority, and responsibility of the IAA (Standard I0OO). The charter establishes the IAA's position within the organization, including the nature of the chief audit executive's functional reporting relationship with the board; authorizes access to records, personnel, and physical properties; and defines the scope of internal audit activities (Interpretation of Standard I0OO). 
The charter establishes the IAA's position within the organization and authorizes access to personnel. 
86
Internal auditing has planned an engagement to evaluate the effectiveness of the quality
assurance function as it affects the receipt of goods, the transfer of the goods into production,
and the scrap costs related to defective items. The engagement client argues that such an
engagement is not within the scope of the internal audit activity and should come under the
purview of the quality assurance department only. What is the most appropriate response?

Refer to the internal audit activity's charter and the approved engagement plan that includes the area designated for evaluation in the current time period.
Because quality assurance is a new function, seek the approval of management as a mediator to set the scope of the engagement. 
Indicate that the engagement will evaluate the function only in accordance with the standards set by, and approved by, the quality assurance function before beginning the engagement. 
Terminate the engagement because it will not be productive without the client's cooperation. 
1
Question Explanation
2
The charter must define the purpose, authority, and responsibility of the IAA (Standard l000). Among other matters, it defines the scope of internal audit activities. Furthermore, the CAE submits annually to senior management and the board for review and  approval a summary of the internal audit plan, work schedule, staffing plan, and financial budget (PA 2020- I).  
The engagement client does not determine the scope of this type of assurance engagement. A scope limitation imposed by the client might prevent the IAA from achieving its objectives.  
Other objectives may be established by management and the internal auditors. The engagement is not limited to the specific standards set by the quality assurance department. It considers such standards in the development of the engagement program. 
The internal auditors must conduct the engagement and communicate any scope limitations to management and the board. 
87
The chief audit executive has assigned an internal auditor to perform a year-end engagement to
evaluate payroll records. The internal auditor has contacted the director of compensation and
has been refused access to necessary documents. To avoid this problem,

Access to records relevant to performance of engagements should be specified in the internal audit activity's charter. 
Internal auditing should be required to report to the CEO of the organization.
By following the long-range planning process, access to all relevant records should be guaranteed.
Board approval should be required for all scope limitations.
1
Question Explanation
2
Specific guidelines are written in the IAA's charter authorizing access to records, personnel, and physical properties relevant to the performance of engagements (Interpretation of Standard l000). Such provisions reduce the likelihood of scope limitations. 
The IAA need not report to a specific individual in the organization, although reporting administratively to the CEO is desirable. 
Following the long-range planning process provides no guarantee of access. 
The IAA informs the board of any scope limitations, but its approval is not required. 
88
The organizational position of the internal audit activity should be free from the effects of
irresponsible policy changes by management. The most effective way to ensure that freedom is
to	

 Have the internal audit charter approved by the board.
Adopt policies for the functioning of the internal audit activity.
Establish an audit committee within the board.
Develop written policies and procedures to serve as standards of performance for the internal audit activity.
1
Question Explanation
2
The purpose, authority, and responsibility of the internal audit activity must be formally defined in a charter approved by the board (Standard I OOO). The charter establishes the IAA' s position within the organization, including the nature of the chief audit executive's functional reporting relationship with the board; authorizes access to records, personnel, and physical properties relevant to the performance of engagements; and defines the scope of internal audit activities (Interpretation of Standard I OOO). If questions arise, the charter provides a formal, written agreement with management about the organization's IAA (PA  1000- I). 
Adoption of policies for the functioning of the IAA does not protect its organizational position. 
The establishment of an audit committee does not ensure the status of the IAA without its involvement in matters such as approval of the charter. 
Written policies and procedures serve to guide the internal auditor but have little effect on management. 
89
In some organizations, internal audit functions are outsourced. Management in a large
organization should recognize that the external auditor may have an advantage, compared with
the internal auditor, because of the external auditor&quot;s	

Familiarity with the organization. Its annual audits provide an in-depth knowledge of the organization.
Size. It can hire experienced, knowledgeable, and certified staff.
Size. It is able to offer continuous availability of staff unaffected by other priorities.
Structure. It may more easily accommodate engagement requirements in distant locations.
4
Question Explanation
2
The internal auditors are likely to be more familiar with the organization than the external auditors, given the continuous nature of their responsibilities. 
The internal auditor also can hire experienced, knowledgeable, and certified staff. 
The internal auditor is more likely to be continuously available. The external auditor has responsibilities to many other clients. 
Large organizations that are geographically dispersed may find outsourcing internal audit functions to external auditors to be effective. A major public accounting firm ordinarily has operations that are national or worldwide in scope. 
90
Which of the following is not true with regard to the internal audit charter?	

It defines the authorities and responsibilities for the internal audit activity.
It specifies the minimum resources needed for the internal audit activity.
It provides a basis for evaluating the internal audit activity.
It should be approved by the board.
2
Question Explanation
2
The charter formally defines the purpose, authority, and responsibilities of the internal audit activity. (Standard I OOO). 
The charter formally defines the purpose, authority, and responsibilities of the internal audit activity. However, resource requirements are based on risk-based plans that are consistent with organizational objectives. Moreover, the chief audit executive should ensure that resources are appropriate, sufficient, and effectively deployed. Thus, the internal audit manual and annual audit plan help in determining the resource requirements for the internal audit activity. 
The internal audit charter defines the role and responsibility of the internal audit activity and facilitates the assessment of the adequacy of the IAA's purpose, authority, and responsibility (PA I OOO-I). 
Final approval of the internal audit charter resides with the board (Interpretation of Standard IOOO). 
91
After the chief audit executive receives approval from the board to offer consulting services,
what should be done?
	

The CAE should begin performing consulting services.
The CAE should get approval from the internal auditors.
The internal audit charter should be amended.
The board should develop appropriate policies and procedures for conducting such engagements.
3
Question Explanation
2
After the CAE receives board approval, the internal audit charter must be amended and the CAE must establish policies and procedures. 
The CAE does not need to get additional approval from the internal auditors. Only board approval is required. 
The purpose, authority, and responsibility of the IAA must be formally defined in an internal audit charter (Standard I OOO). 'The nature of consulting services must be defined in the internal audit charter' (Standard I 000.C I ). 
The CAE must establish policies and procedures to guide the IAA (Standard 2040). 
92
An approach in which the internal audit activity obtains external aid in performing certain
activities is

 Cosourcing.
Outsourcing.
Joint venture.
Informal consulting.
1
Question Explanation
2
Cosourcing is an approach in which the internal audit activity obtains external aid in performing certain activities. It allows an organization to obtain the benefits of both an internal audit activity and outsourcing. 
Outsourcing is an alternative to staffing an internal audit activity. 
A joint venture is a partnership or conglomerate, usually between organizations. 
Informal consulting is a form of engagement that includes routine activities, such as participation on standing committees; limited-life projects; ad- hoc meetings; and routine information exchange. 
93
The charter of the internal audit activity (IAA) of a large public entity has not yet been
approved by the board. However, the board is chaired by the chief executive officer (CEO) and
includes the controller and one outside board member. The chief audit executive (CAE) reports
directly to the controller who approves the IAA&quot;s work schedule. The previous CAE was
recently dismissed following a dispute between the CAE and a major engagement client.
Within the first month, the new CAE encountered substantial resistance from an engagement
client regarding the nature of the work and the IAA&quot;s access to records. Moreover, the CEO
accused the CAE of not operating &quot;in the best interests of the organization.&quot;  From the
perspective of the internal audit activity, which of the following facts, by themselves, could
contribute to a lack of independence?
I. The CEO accused the new auditor of not operating &quot;in the best interests of the
	organization.&quot;
II.	. The majority of audit committee members come from within the organization.
III.	I. The IAA&quot;s charter has not been approved by the board.

I only. 
II only.
Hand III only.
I, II, and III.
4
Question Explanation
2
Lack of a charter and lack of outside directors weaken the IAA's position. 
. Lack of support by the CEO and lack of a charter weaken the IAA's position. 
Lack of support by the CEO weakens the IAA's position.
The CEO's statement suggests that the IAA lacks the support of senior management and the board. Furthermore, the lack of outside audit committee members may contribute to a loss of independence. The failure to approve the charter may have the same effect. The charter enhances the independence of the IAA because, by specifying the purpose, authority, and responsibility of the IAA, it establishes the position of the IAA in the organization, including the nature of the chief audit executive's functional reporting relationship with the board (Interpretation of Standard l000). To achieve the degree of independence necessary to effectively carry out the responsibilities 
94
To avoid being the apparent cause of conflict between an organization&quot;s senior management
and the board, the chief audit executive should	

Communicate all engagement results to both senior management and the board.
Strengthen the independence of the internal audit activity through organizational position.
Discuss all reports to senior management with the board first.
Request board approval of policies that include IAA relationships with the board.
4
Question Explanation
2
Receipt of all engagement results by senior management and the board is unnecessary and inefficient. 
Organizational position helps the IAA to achieve independence but is not, by itself, enough to avoid conflict. 
The board essentially has an oversight rather than an operational role. 
Establishing the IAA's position within the organization is important because, among other things, it helps the IAA to achieve independence. Support from senior management and the board assists the IAA in gaining cooperation from clients and working free from interference (PA I II O-I). To achieve the degree of independence necessary to effectively carry out the responsibilities of the internal audit activity, the chief audit executive has direct and unrestricted access to senior management and the board. This can be achieved through a dual-reporting relationship (Interpretation of Standard I IOO). 
95
An organization is in the process of establishing its new internal audit activity. The controller
has no previous experience with internal auditors. Due to this lack of experience, the controller
advised the applicants that the CAE will be reporting to the external auditors. However, the
new chief audit executive will have free access to the controller to report anything important.
The controller will then convey the CAE&quot;s concerns to the board of directors. The IAA will	

Be independent because the CAE has direct access to the board.
Not be independent because the CAE reports to the external auditors.
Not be independent because the controller has no experience with internal auditors.
Not be independent because the organization did not specify that the applicants must be certified internal auditors.
2
Question Explanation
2
The IAA will not have direct access to the board. The access is indirect via the controller. 
Independence is the freedom from conditions that threaten the ability of the IAA to carry out internal audit responsibilities in an unbiased manner. To achieve the degree of independence necessary to effectively carry out the responsibilities of the IAA, the CAE has direct and unrestricted access to senior management and the board. This can be achieved through a dual-reporting relationship (Interpretation of Standard I IOO). External auditors are not members of management or the board. 
Whether the controller has experience with internal auditors does not affect the IAA's independence. 
Although desirable, the CIA designation is not mandatory for a person to become an internal auditor. A CIA should insist on IAA independence. 
96
A medium-sized publicly owned organization operating in Country X has grown to a size that
the governing authority believes warrants the establishment of an internal audit activity.
Country X has legislated internal audit requirements for government-owned organizations. The
organization changed the bylaws to reflect the establishment of the internal audit activity. The
governing authority decided that the chief audit executive (CAE) must be a certified internal
auditor and will report directly to the newly established audit committee. Which of the items
discussed above will contribute the most to the new CAE&quot;s independence?

The establishment of the internal audit activity is documented in the bylaws.
Country X has legislated internal auditing requirements.
The CAE will report to the audit committee.
The CAE is to be a certified internal auditor.
3
Question Explanation
2
Documentation in the by-laws does little to promote independence. 
Legislated internal audit requirements in Country X do not promote independence. 
The chief audit executive must confirm to the board, at least annually, the organizational independence of the internal audit activity (Standard I II O). Moreover, independence is effectively achieved when the CAE reports functionally to the board (Interpretation of Standard II I O). The board (and by extension, the audit committee) is the highest authority in the organization. Also, the CAE must communicate and interact directly with the board (Standard I III ). 
Independence requires support from senior management and the board. 
97
The reporting relationship within the organization&quot;s management structure that facilitates the
day-&quot;to-day operations of the IAA is	

 Administrative reporting.
Financial reporting.
Management reporting.
Functional reporting.
1
Question Explanation
2
Administrative reporting is the reporting relationship within the organization's management structure that facilitates the day-to-day operations of the IAA (PA II IO- I). Administrative reporting typically includes (I) budgeting and management accounting; (2) human resource administration, including personnel evaluations and compensation; (3) internal communications and information flows; and (4) administration of the organization's internal policies and procedures. 
. Financial reporting focuses primarily on reporting information about performance provided by measures of earnings and its components. 
A form of management reporting is issuance of financial statements, which report on the organization' s performance to external parties. 
. Functional reporting involves reporting to the board to facilitate the IAA's independence. 
98
An external quality assessment team was evaluating the independence of an internal audit
activity. The internal audit activity performs engagements concerning all of the elements
included in its scope. Which of the following reporting responsibilities is most likely to
threaten the internal audit activity&quot;s independence?  Reporting to the

President.
Treasurer.
Executive vice president.
Audit committee.
2
Question Explanation
2
. Being responsible to the president helps preserve the IAA's independence by enhancing its position in the organization. 
At a minimum, the CAE needs to report to an individual in the organization with sufficient authority to promote independence and to ensure (I) broad engagement coverage, (2) adequate consideration of engagement communications, and (3) appropriate action on engagement recommendations (PA I I IO-I). The higher the level to which the IAA reports, the more likely that independence will be assured. The highest level to which it might report is the audit committee, which includes outside members of the board of directors. The next highest is the chief executive officer. Reporting to the treasurer limits the influence and independence of the IAA. 
The executive vice president is higher ranking than the treasurer.
The audit committee is higher ranking than the treasurer.
99
The CAE should report functionally to the board. The board is responsible for which of the
following activities?
I. Internal communication and information flows
II.	. Approval of the internal audit risk assessment and related audit plan
III.	I. Approval of annual compensation and salary adjustments for the CAE

 land II.
II and III.
I and III.
I, II, and III.
2
Question Explanation
2
Internal communication and information flows are administrative reporting items. Administrative reporting is the reporting relationship within the management structure. Furthermore, functional reporting also involves the board's approval of annual compensation and salary adjustments for the CAE. 
When the CAE reports functionally to the board and administratively to the CEO, the IAA's independence is facilitated. Reporting functionally means that the board O Approves the IAA's overall charter. 0 Approves the internal audit risk assessment and related audit plan. 0 Receives communications from the CAE on the results of internal audit activities or other matters that the CAE determines are necessary, including private meetings with the CAE without management present. 0 Approves all decisions regarding the evaluation, appointment, or removal of the CAE. O Approves the annual compensation and salary adjustment of the CAE. 0 Makes appropriate inquiries of management and the CAE to determine whether there are scope or budgetary limitations that impede the ability of the IAA to execute its responsibilities (PA I II O-I). 
Internal communication and information flows are administrative reporting items. Moreover, functional reporting also involves the board's approval of the internal audit risk assessment and related audit plan. 
Internal communication and information flows are administrative reporting items. 
100
During the performance of an engagement to evaluate a division&quot;s controls over purchasing, the
chief purchasing agent asked why the internal auditor had requested documents pertaining to
transactions with a particular supplier. The internal auditor&quot;s proper response is to

Treat the inquiry as a scope limitation.
Explain the reasons for the information request to promote cooperation with the engagement client.
Refuse to explain the information request to preserve the integrity of the engagement process.
Consider the specific circumstances before deciding whether to disclose the reasons for the information request.
4
Question Explanation
2
A scope limitation is a restriction placed upon the IAA that precludes it from accomplishing its objectives and plans (PA I 130- I). 
The CAE should consider the specific circumstances before deciding whether to disclose the reasons for the information request. 
. It is not always necessary or desirable to refuse to explain an information request. 
At times, an internal auditor may be asked by the engagement client or other parties to explain why a document that has been requested is relevant to an engagement. Disclosure or nondisclosure during the engagement of the reasons documents are needed should be determined based on the circumstances. Significant irregularities may dictate a less open environment than would normally contribute to a cooperative engagement. However, that is a judgment that should be made by the chief audit executive in light of the specific circumstances. Moreover, the internal audit activity must be free from interference in determining the scope of internal auditing, performing work, and communicating results (Standard I I I O.A I ). 
101
Independence permits internal auditors to render impartial and unbiased judgments. The best
way to achieve independence is through	

Individual knowledge and skills.
A dual-reporting relationship.
Supervision within the organization.
Organizational knowledge and skills.
2
Question Explanation
2
Individual knowledge and skills allow individual auditors to achieve professional proficiency. 
The IAA must be independent (Standard II 00). Independence is the freedom from conditions that threaten the ability of the IAA to carry out internal audit responsibilities in an unbiased manner. To achieve the degree of independence necessary to effectively carry out the responsibilities of the IAA, the CAE has direct and unrestricted access to senior management and the board. This can be achieved through a dual' reporting relationship (Interpretation of Standard II 00). 
Supervision ensures that engagement objectives are achieved, quality is assured, and staff is developed (Standard 2340). 
Organizational knowledge and skills allow the IAA collectively to achieve professional proficiency. 
102
When evaluating the independence of an internal audit activity, a quality assurance review team
performing an external assessment considers several factors. Which of the following factors has
the least amount of influence when judging an internal audit activity&quot;s independence?	

Criteria used in making internal auditors' assignments.
The extent of internal auditor training in communications skills.
Relationship between engagement records and engagement communications.
Impartial and unbiased judgments.
2
Question Explanation
2
How individual internal auditors are assigned relates to independence. The auditor's personal relationships with operating personnel, work experience with the engagement client, etc., affect independence. 
The IAA must be independent (Standard I I OO). Independence is the freedom from conditions that threaten the ability of the IAA to carry out internal audit responsibilities in an unbiased manner. To achieve the degree of independence necessary to effectively carry out the responsibilities of the IAA, the CAE has direct and unrestricted access to senior management and the board. This can be achieved through a dual' reporting relationship (Interpretation of Standard I I OO). However, training in communication relates to the knowledge skills, and other competencies needed to perform engagements, not to independence. 
. If significant engagement observations found in the engagement records are omitted from the engagement communications, independence becomes an issue. 
Unbiased judgment is an aspect of independence.
103
The optimal administrative reporting line of the CAE is to	

The audit committee.
Line management.
Board of directors.
CEO or equivalent.
4
Question Explanation
2
Functional reporting is to the board.
Administrative reporting preferably is to the CEO.
The CAE must communicate and interact directly with the board (Standard I II I). Functional reporting needs to be to the board. 
Administrative reporting is the reporting relationship within the organization's management structure that facilitates the day-to-day operations of the IAA (PA II l0-I). Administrative reporting typically includes (I) budgeting and management accounting; (2) human resource administration, including personnel evaluations and compensation; (3) internal communications and information flows; and (4) administration of the organization's internal policies and procedures. Reporting functionally to the board and administratively to the CEO facilitates organizational independence (PA I Il0-I). 
104
Regardless of which reporting relationship the organization chooses, several key actions can
help ensure that the reporting lines support and enable the effectiveness and independence of
the internal auditing activity. Which key action will not achieve its functional reporting
purpose?

 The functional reporting line should go directly to the board to ensure the appropriate level of independence and communication.
The CAE should meet with the board, with management present, to reinforce the independence of the internal audit activity.
The board should have the final authority to approve the internal audit risk assessment.
The board should approve the CAE's performance evaluation.
2
Question Explanation
2
Functional reporting to the board facilitates the independence of the IAA. 
Functional reporting to the board typically involves its receipt of communications from the CAE on the results of the internal audit activities or other matters that the CAE determines are necessary. These include private meetings with the CAE without management present, as well as annual confirmation of the IAA's organizational independence (PA  I I 10- I). 
The board approves all decisions regarding the performance evaluation, appointment, or removal of the CAE. 
The board approves the internal audit risk assessment and the related audit plan. 
105
A formal document (charter) approved by the board that defines the internal audit activity&quot;s
purpose, authority, and responsibility enhances its	

Exercise of due professional care.
Proficiency.
Relationship with management.
Independence.
4
Question Explanation
2
Due professional care is an attribute of work performed.
Proficiency results from the knowledge, skills, and other competencies required for internal auditors to perform their individual responsibilities. 
The IAA's relationship with management is a function of professionalism. The charter establishes independence, not a working relationship. 
The purpose, authority, and responsibility of the internal audit activity must be defined in a charter (Standard IOOO). The charter establishes the internal audit activity's position within the organization, including the nature of the chief audit executive's functional reporting relationship with the board; authorizes access to records, personnel, and physical properties relevant to the performance of engagements; and defines the scope of internal audit activities (Interpretation of Standard I OOO). When the CAE reports functionally to the board and administratively to the CEO, the organizational independence of the IAA is facilitated (PA II IO-I). 
106
The reporting structure that is most likely to allow the internal audit activity to accomplish its
responsibilities is to report administratively to the	

Board and functionally to the chief executive officer.
Controller and functionally to the chief financial officer.
Chief executive officer and functionally to the board of directors.
Chief executive officer and functionally to the external auditor.
3
Question Explanation
2
The reverse arrangement is appropriate. The board is not involved in the routine management of the firm. 
Reporting administratively to the controller and functionally to the chief financial officer would result in insufficient organizational status for internal auditing. 
Reporting functionally to the board and administratively to the organization's CEO facilitates organizational independence. At a minimum, the CAE needs to report to an individual in the organization with sufficient authority to promote independence and to ensure broad engagement coverage, adequate consideration of engagement communications, and appropriate action on engagement recommendations (PA I I IO- I). Being responsible to the CEO while maintaining a functional relationship with the board satisfies the need for an organizational status sufficient for accomplishment of the IAA's responsibilities. 
The external auditor is not part of the organizational hierarchy.
107
The organizational level to which the internal audit activity reports

Must be sufficient to permit the accomplishment of the activity's responsibilities.
Is best when the reporting relationship is direct to the board of directors.
Requires only the board's annual approval of the engagement work schedule, staffing plan, and financial budget.
Is guaranteed when the charter specifically defines the activity's independence.
1
Question Explanation
2
The CAE must report to a level within the organization that allows the IAA to fulfill its responsibilities (Standard I II O). Support from senior management and the board assists the IAA in gaining the cooperation of engagement clients and performing their work free from interference (PA II I O-I). 
The IAA requires day-to-day support that cannot be provided by the board. It should still report to management. Ideally, the IAA should report administratively to the CEO of the organization. 
The CAE will submit annually to senior management and the board for review and approval a summary of the IAA's internal audit plan, work schedule, staffing plan, and financial budget (PA 2020- I). 
A statement in the charter does not guarantee independence.
108
The board is most likely to participate in approving

Staff promotions and salary increases.
Engagement communication observations, conclusions, and recommendations.
Engagement work programs.
Appointment of the chief audit executive.
4
Question Explanation
2
The organization's CAE is responsible for staff promotions.
The organization's CAE is responsible for approving engagement communication observations, conclusions, and recommendations. 
The CAE or designee provides appropriate engagement supervision, which includes providing appropriate instructions during the planning of the engagement and approving the engagement program. 
Organizational independence is effectively achieved when the chief audit executive reports functionally to the board. Examples of functional reporting to the board involve the board's O Approval of the internal audit charter; 0 Approval of the risk-based internal audit plan; 0 Receipt of communications from the chief audit executive on the internal audit activity's performance relative to its plan and other matters; 0 Approval of decisions regarding the appointment and removal of the chief audit executive; and O Appropriate inquiries of management and the chief audit executive to determine whether there are inappropriate scope or resource limitations. (Interpretation of Standard II I O) 
109
The IIA has indicated that to achieve necessary independence, the CAE should report
functionally to whom?

Senior management.
Shareholders.
Chief Executive Officer.
The board.
4
Question Explanation
2
Organizational independence is facilitated when the CAE reports functionally to the board and administratively to the CEO (PA I I IO-I). 
This is not the group that The IIA believes the CAE should report to. The CAE should report to the audit committee (the board), who then decide what to do. 
The CAE optimally reports to the CEO for administrative purposes. 
The CAE must report to a level within the organization that allows the internal audit activity to fulfill its responsibilities (Standard I I I O). Moreover, independence is effectively achieved when the CAE reports functionally to the board (Interpretation of Standard I I I O). 
110
In some cultures and organizations, managers insist that an internal audit activity is not needed
to provide a critical assessment of the organization&quot;s operations. This kind of management
attitude will most probably have an adverse effect on the internal audit activity&quot;s

Operating budget variance.
Effectiveness.
Performance appraisals.
Policies and procedures.
2
Question Explanation
2
An operating budget variance report is a control device used to monitor actual performance. Lack of management cooperation could cause unfavorable variances, but favorable variances also could occur if many engagements were subject to scope impairments. 
In this situation, management is highly averse to analysis or possible criticism of its actions. Consequently, the IAA will most likely not report to an organizational level that will allow it to fulfill its responsibilities (Standard II IO). Thus, the CAE is unlikely to report to an individual with the authority to promote independence and to ensure broad audit coverage. Furthermore, engagement communications are unlikely to receive adequate consideration, and appropriate action is unlikely to be taken on engagement recommendations (PA I II O-I). 
Evaluation of the internal auditing staff should not be affected by lack of cooperation on the part of nonintemal auditing management. 
Policies and procedures of the IAA are developed by the IAA. They should not be affected by nonintemal auditing management. 
111
A service organization is currently experiencing a significant downsizing and process
reengineering. Its board of directors has redefined the business goals and established initiatives
using in-house developed technology to meet these goals. As a result, a more decentralized
approach has been adopted to run the business functions by empowering the business branch
managers to make decisions and perform functions traditionally done at a higher level. The
internal auditing staff is made up of the chief audit executive, two managers, and five staff
auditors, all with financial background. In the past, the primary focus of successful internal
audit activities has been the service branches and the six regional division headquarters which
support the branches. These division headquarters are the primary targets for possible
elimination. The support functions such as human resources, accounting, and purchasing will
be brought into the national headquarters, and technology will be enhanced to enable and
augment these operations. Up to this point, the internal audit activity has reported to the chief
operating officer. Due to the significant changes, there has been some discussion as to changing
this reporting relationship. What would be the best reporting relationship?	

Administratively and functionally to the president.
Administratively to the president, functionally to the board.
Administratively to the chief financial officer and functionally to the president.
Administratively and functionally to the chief operating officer.
2
Question Explanation
2
Organizational independence is effectively achieved when the CAE reports functionally to the board. 
The chief audit executive must report to a level within the organization that allows the internal audit activity to fulfill its responsibilities. The chief audit executive must confirm to the board, at least annually, the organizational independence of the internal audit activity (Standard I II 0). The chief audit executive (CAE), reporting functionally to the board and administratively to the organization's chief executive officer, facilitates organizational independence. At a minimum the CAE needs to report to an individual in the organization with sufficient authority to promote independence and to ensure broad audit coverage, adequate consideration of engagement communications, and appropriate action on engagement recommendations (PA I II O-I). 
The chief audit executive (CAE), reporting functionally to the board and administratively to the organization's chief executive officer, facilitates organizational independence. 
The best reporting relationship is administratively to the president, functionally to the board. 
112
A charter is being drafted for a newly formed internal audit activity. Which of the following
best describes an appropriate organizational position to be incorporated into the charter?

The chief audit executive reports to the chief executive officer but has access to the board.
The chief audit executive is a member of the board.
The chief audit executive is a staff officer reporting to the chief financial officer.
The chief audit executive reports to an administrative vice president.
1
Question Explanation
2
The CAE needs to report to an individual in the organization with sufficient authority to promote independence and to ensure broad audit coverage, adequate consideration of engagement communications, and appropriate action on engagement recommendations. Reporting functionally to the board and administratively to the CEO facilitates the organizational independence of the IAA (PA II I O-I). 
Placing the CAE in a governance position impairs his/her objectivity. 
Serving as a staff officer and reporting to the CFO limit the influence and independence of the IAA. 
Reporting to an administrative vice president limits the influence and independence of the IAA. 
113
Internal auditors must be objective in performing their work. Assume that the chief audit
executive received an annual bonus as part of that individual&quot;s compensation package. The
bonus may impair the CAE&quot;s objectivity if	

The bonus is administered by the board of directors or its salary administration committee.
The bonus is based on monetary amounts recovered or recommended future savings as a result of engagements.
The scope of internal auditing is evaluating control rather than account balances.
All of the answers are correct.
2
Question Explanation
2
The board of directors needs to determine the CAE's compensation.
Internal auditors must have an impartial, unbiased attitude and avoid any conflict of interest (Standard I 120). Conflict of interest is a situation in which an internal auditor, who is in a position of trust, has a competing professional or personal interest (Interpretation of Standard II 20). Thus, objectivity may be impaired if the bonus, a competing personal interest, is based on monetary amounts recovered or recommended future savings as a result of engagements. A bonus based on either of these criteria could unduly influence the type of engagements performed or the recommendations made. 
The IAA's scope of work includes evaluating and contributing to the improvement of risk management, control, and governance processes. 
Objectivity is not impaired if the board determines the director's compensation or if the scope of work is evaluating control rather than account balances. 
114
Objectivity is most likely impaired by an internal auditor&quot; s	

Continuation on an engagement at a division for which (s)he will soon be responsible as the result of a promotion.
Reduction of the scope of an engagement due to budget restrictions.
Participation on a task force that recommends standards for control of a new distribution system.
Review of a purchasing agent's contract drafts prior to their execution.
1
Question Explanation
2
Internal auditors must have an impartial, unbiased attitude and avoid any conflict of interest (Standard I 120). Conflict of interest is a situation in which an internal auditor, who is in a position of trust, has a competing professional or personal interest (Interpretation of Standard II 20). Thus, the internal auditor's promotion may create a bias. 
Budget restrictions do not constitute an impairment of independence or objectivity. 
An internal auditor may recommend standards of control. However, designing, installing, drafting procedures for, or operating systems might impair objectivity (PA I 120- I). 
An internal auditor may review contracts prior to their execution. 
115
In which of the following scenarios does the auditor most likely have organizational
independence but lack objectivity?	

Reports to the audit client, but does not report fully about the reason for the corrective action taken.
Reports to the board and reports fully about the corrective action taken.
Reports to the audit client and reports fully about the corrective action taken.
Reports to the board, but does not report fully about the reason for the corrective action taken.
4
Question Explanation
2
Reporting to the audit client does not allow the internal audit activity to fulfill its responsibilities. 
When the auditor reports to the board and reports fully about the corrective action taken, no apparent independence or objectivity issue arises. 
Reporting to the client indicates a lack of independence.
The CAE must report to a level within the organization that allows the internal audit activity to fulfill its responsibilities (Standard 11 1O). Reporting to the board fulfills this requirement. Internal auditors must have an impartial, unbiased attitude and avoid conflicts of interest (Standard 1120). Failing to report fully about the reason for corrective action may imply bias (a loss of objectivity) with regard to the audit client. 
116
An appropriate internal auditing role in a feasibility study is to

Serve on the task force for the preliminary survey.
Ascertain if the feasibility study addresses cost-benefit relationships.
Determine the requirements for preparing a manual of specifications.
Participate in the drafting of recommendations for the computer acquisition and implementation.
2
Question Explanation
2
Serving on the task force for the preliminary survey is appropriate for users and functional management. 
A feasibility study should consider the costs and benefits of conversion to a new computer system. The feasibility study is a preliminary step prior to plans for implementation. Internal auditors may recommend standards of control and review procedures before implementation, but their objectivity is considered to be impaired if they design, install, draft procedures for, or operate such systems (PA 1120-1). 
Determining the requirements for preparing a manual of specifications is appropriate for users and functional management. 
Computer experts should participate in the drafting of recommendations for the computer acquisition and implementation. 
117
A consulting activity appropriately performed by the internal audit function is

 Designing systems of control.
Drafting procedures for systems of control.
Reviewing systems of control before implementation.
Installing systems of control.
3
Question Explanation
2
Designing systems is presumed to impair audit objectivity.
Drafting procedures for systems is presumed to impair independence. 
Internal auditors may recommend standards of control and review procedures before implementation, but their objectivity is considered to be impaired if they design, install, draft procedures for, or operate such systems (PA 1120-1). 
Installing systems of controls is presumed to impair independence. 
118
An internal auditor most likely will have a conflict of interest by providing an assurance
service with regard to a

Financial activity in which the internal auditor had been a key employee 5 years previously.
Purchasing activity if a major supplier is owned by the internal auditor's sister-in-law.
Data processing center for which the internal auditor had performed the service three times previously.
Computer system for which the internal auditor had been the internal audit activity' s representative on the design team.
2
Question Explanation
2
Objectivity is presumed to be impaired if an internal auditor provides assurance services for an activity for which the internal auditor had responsibility within the previous year (Standard I 130.A I ). Thus, 5 years is a reasonable lapse of time to safeguard the employee from a charge of conflict of interest. 
According to the Code of Ethics, 'Internal auditors shall not participate in any activity or relationship that may impair or be presumed to impair their unbiased assessment. This participation includes those activities or relationships that may be in conflict with the interests of the organization' (Rule of Conduct 2.1 ). Moreover, internal auditors periodically report to the chief audit executive any information about potential conflicts of interest or bias. The CAE makes staff assignments so that potential and actual conflicts of interest and bias are avoided (PA I 120- I). A close relative's involvement with a supplier of an engagement client is an apparent conflict of interest. 
Although rotation of assignments is preferable, no conflict of interest is involved in performing an assurance service for the same activity repeatedly. 
Objectivity is not impaired if the internal auditor's responsibility was limited to recommending standards of control for systems or reviewing procedures before implementation. 
119
Management has requested the internal audit activity to perform an engagement to recommend
procedures and policies for improving management control over the telephone marketing
operations of a major division. The chief audit executive should	

Not accept the engagement because recommending controls would impair future objectivity regarding this operation.
Not accept the engagement because internal audit activities are presumed to have expertise regarding accounting controls, not marketing controls.
Accept the engagement, but indicate to management that, because recommending controls impairs independence, future engagements in the area will be impaired.
Accept the engagement because objectivity will not be impaired.
4
Question Explanation
2
The CAE should accept the engagement. Recommending controls is not considered to impair independence or objectivity. 
The engagement should be accepted. The IAA must evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of controls in responding to risks within the organization's governance, operations, and information systems (Standard 2130.Al). 
Independence is not impaired by making control recommendations. 
The CAE should accept the engagement. Recommending standards of control for systems or reviewing procedures prior to implementation does not impair objectivity (PA II 20-I). Moreover, if this engagement is deemed to involve consulting services, objectivity is not required provided that any impairment is disclosed to the client prior to acceptance of the engagement (Standard I 130.C2). 
120
Which of the following statements is an appropriate reason for the internal audit activity not to
participate in the systems development process?	

Recommendations prior to implementation will affect independence, and the internal auditors will not be able to perform an objective evaluation after the system is implemented.
Participation will delay implementation of the project.
Participation will cause the internal auditors to be labeled as partial owners of the application, and they will then have to share the blame for any problems that remain in the system.
None of the answers are correct.
4
Question Explanation
2
IAA independence is not affected by recommending control standards or reviewing procedures before implementation. 
IAA participation will not delay the project unless needed controls were absent. 
The internal auditors may participate in systems development but must not draft procedures or design, install, or operate the system. 
Objectivity is not adversely affected when the internal auditors recommend standards of control for systems or review procedures before they are implemented. Designing, installing, drafting procedures for, or operating systems is presumed to impair objectivity (PA I 120- I). Moreover, if this engagement is deemed to involve consulting services, independence or objectivity is not required provided that any impairment is disclosed to the client prior to acceptance of the engagement (Standard I 130.C2). 
121
Which of the following activities is not presumed to impair the objectivity of an internal
auditor?
I. Recommending standards of control for a new information system application
II.	. Drafting procedures for running a new computer application to ensure that proper controls
are installed
III.	I. Performing reviews of procedures for a new computer application before it is installed

I only.
II only.
III only.
land III.
4
Question Explanation
2
Performing reviews of procedures is presumed not to impair objectivity. 
Drafting procedures is presumed to impair objectivity.
Recommending standards of control is presumed not to impair objectivity. 
The internal auditor's objectivity is not adversely affected when (s)he recommends standards of control for systems or reviews procedures before they are implemented. Designing, installing, or drafting procedures for operating systems is presumed to impair objectivity (PA 1120- 1). 
122
Assuming that the internal auditing staff possesses the necessary experience and training, which
of the following services is most appropriate for a staff internal auditor to undertake?

Substitute for the accounts payable supervisor while (s)he is on sick leave.
Determine the profitability of alternative investment acquisitions and select the best alternative.
As part of an evaluation team, review vendor accounting software internal controls and rank according to exposures.
Participate in an internal audit of the accounting department shortly after transferring from the accounting department.
3
Question Explanation
2
An internal auditor's objectivity is presumed to be impaired for at least 1 year with respect to activities (s)he previously performed. 
Investment decisions are management's responsibility.
An internal auditor's objectivity is not impaired when (s)he recommends standards of control for systems or reviews procedures before they are implemented (PA 1120- 1). Moreover, if this engagement is deemed to involve consulting services, objectivity is not required provided that any impairment is disclosed to the client prior to acceptance of the engagement (Standard 1130.C2). 
An internal auditor should not be assigned to engagements concerning activities (s)he previously performed until at least 1 year has elapsed. 
123
Reengineering is the thorough analysis, fundamental rethinking, and complete redesign of
essential business processes. The intended result is a dramatic improvement in service, quality,
speed, and cost. An internal auditor&quot;s involvement in reengineering should include all of the
following except

Determining whether the process has senior management's support.
Recommending areas for consideration.
Developing audit plans for the new system.
Directing the implementation of the redesigned process.
4
Question Explanation
2
Internal auditors may perform the function of determining whether the process has senior management's support. 
Internal auditors may perform the function of recommending areas for consideration. 
Internal auditors may perform the function of developing audit plans for the new system. 
Internal auditors should not become directly involved in the implemention of the redesign process. The internal auditor's objectivity is not adversely affected when (s)he recommends standards of control for systems or reviews procedures before they are implemented. Designing, installing, or drafting procedures for operating systems is presumed to impair objectivity (PA II 20-I). 
124
An activity appropriately performed by the internal audit activity is

Designing systems of control.
Drafting procedures for systems of control.
Reviewing systems of control before implementation.
Installing systems of control.
3
Question Explanation
2
systems is presumed to impair objectivity.
Drafting procedures for systems is presumed to impair objectivity. 
The internal auditor's objectivity is not adversely affected when (s)he recommends standards of control for systems or reviews procedures before they are implemented. However, an internal auditor's objectivity is considered to be impaired if the auditor designs, installs, drafts procedures for, or operates such systems (PA I 120- I). 
Installing systems of control is presumed to impair objectivity.Installing systems of control is presumed to impair objectivity.
125
Which of the following most seriously compromises confidence in the internal audit activity?

Internal auditors frequently draft revised procedures for departments whose procedures have been criticized in an engagement communication.
The chief audit executive has dual reporting responsibility to the organization's chief executive officer and the board of directors.
The internal audit activity and the organization's external auditors engage in joint planning of total engagement coverage to avoid duplicating each other's work.
The internal audit activity is included in the review cycle of the organization's contracts with other organizations before the contracts are executed.
1
Question Explanation
2
The IAA must be independent, and internal auditors must be objective (Standard 1100). Thus, independence is an attribute of the IAA, and objectivity is an attribute of individual internal auditors. Because designing, installing, drafting procedures for, or operating systems impairs the objectivity of internal auditors (PA 1120- 1), such services may create a conflict of interest, a situation in which internal auditors have a competing professional or personal interest. This may create an appearance of impropriety that undermines confidence in the IAA (Interpretation of Standard 1120). 
Dual reporting to the CEO and the board of directors is ideal. It enhances the IAA's independence and thus confidence in the IAA (Interpretation of Standard 1100). 
Joint planning with the external auditors need not affect independence and confidence in the IAA. Indeed, the CAE should share information and coordinate activities with other internal and external providers of relevant assurance and consulting services to ensure proper coverage and minimize duplication of efforts (Standard 2050). 
Including the IAA in the review cycle of the organization's contracts is a good example of a preemptive engagement. It affords an opportunity to evaluate the adequacy of control over the proposed contracts. The objectivity of internal auditors, the independence of the IAA, and thus confidence in the IAA are not adversely affected when they recommend standards of control for systems or review procedures before implementation. 
126
An organization is planning to develop and implement a new computerized purchase order
system in one of its manufacturing subsidiaries. The vice president of manufacturing has
requested that internal auditors participate on a team consisting of representatives from finance,
manufacturing, purchasing, and marketing. This team will be responsible for the
implementation effort. Eager to take on this high profile project, the chief audit executive
assigns a senior internal auditor to the project to assist &quot;as needed.&quot; Assuming the senior
internal auditor performed all of the following activities, which one will impair objectivity if
the internal auditor is asked to review the purchase order system on a post-engagement basis?

 Helping to identify and define control objectives.
Testing for compliance with system development standards.
Evaluate risk exposures of systems and programming standards.
Drafting operating procedures for the new system.
4
Question Explanation
2
Helping to identify and define control objectives is necessary in many engagements and would not impair objectivity. However, management, not the internal auditor, is responsible for establishing and achieving the objectives. 
Internal auditors should evaluate risk exposures and the controls relating to compliance with laws, regulations, and contracts. 
Internal auditors evaluate risk exposures of information systems (Standard 2120.A I ). They may also recommend standards of control or review procedures before implementation without adversely affecting their objectivity (PA I 120- I). 
The internal auditor's objectivity is not adversely affected when (s)he recommends standards of control for systems or reviews procedures before they are implemented. Designing, installing, drafting procedures for, or operating systems are presumed to impair the internal auditor's objectivity (PA I 120- I). 
127
The major reason for the internal auditor&quot;s involvement in information systems development is
for the internal auditor to	

Gain familiarity with systems for use in subsequent reviews.
Help assure that systems have adequate control procedures.
Help minimize the cost and development time for new systems.
Propose enhancements for subsequent development and implementation.
2
Question Explanation
2
Gaining familiarity with systems for use in subsequent reviews is not the major reason for the internal auditor's involvement in information systems development. 
The IAA evaluates and improves risk management, control, and governance processes. The internal auditor's objectivity is not adversely affected when the auditor recommends standards of control for systems or reviews procedures before they are implemented. The auditor's objectivity is considered to be impaired if the auditor designs, installs, drafts procedures for, or operates such systems (PA 1120- I). 
Minimizing the cost and development time for new systems is not the major reason for the internal auditor's involvement in information systems development. 
Proposing enhancements for subsequent development and implementation is a managerial, not an internal auditing, function. 
128
George is the new internal auditor for XYZ Corporation. George was in charge of payroll for
XYZ just 10 months ago. Performing what services in regard to payroll is considered an
impairment of independence or objectivity if performed by George?	

Consulting services.
Assurance services.
Assurance or consulting services.
Neither assurance nor consulting services.
2
Question Explanation
2
Providing assurance services but not consulting services regarding payroll will impair the independence or objectivity of George (Standard 1130.CI). 
Internal auditors must refrain from assessing specific operations for which they were previously responsible. Objectivity is presumed to be impaired if an internal auditor provides assurance services for an activity for which the internal auditor had responsibility within the previous year (Standard I 130.Al ). Thus, if George provides assurance services for payroll, his objectivity is presumed to be impaired. Internal auditors may provide consulting services relating to operations for which they had previous responsibilities (Standard I 130.C I ). 
Providing assurance services regarding payroll will impair the independence or objectivity of George. 
Providing consulting services regarding payroll will not impair the objectivity of George (Standard I 130.Al ). 
129
When faced with an imposed scope limitation, the chief audit executive needs to

Refuse to perform the engagement until the scope limitation is removed.
Communicate the potential effects of the scope limitation to the board.
Increase the frequency of engagements concerning the activity in question.
Assign more experienced personnel to the engagement.
2
Question Explanation
2
The engagement may be conducted under a scope limitation.
A scope limitation is a restriction placed upon the IAA that precludes the accomplishment of its objectives and plans. Among other things, a scope limitation may restrict (I) the scope defined in the charter; (2) the IAA's access to records, personnel, and physical properties relevant to the performance of engagements; (3) the approved engagement work schedule; (4) necessary engagement procedures; and (5) the approved staffing plan and financial budget. A scope limitation, along with its potential effect, needs to be communicated, preferably in writing, to the board (PA I 130-I). 
A scope limitation does not necessarily require more frequent engagements. 
A scope limitation does not necessarily require more experienced personnel. 
130
In which of the following situations does an internal auditor potentially lack objectivity?
A.	 
B.	
C.	
D.	

An internal auditor reviews the procedures for a new electronic data interchange (EDD connection to a major customer before it is implemented.
A former purchasing assistant performs a review of internal controls over purchasing 		4 months after being transferred to the internal auditing department.
An internal auditor recommends standards of control and performance measures for a contract with a service organization for the processing of payroll and employee benefits.
A payroll accounting employee assists an internal auditor in verifying the physical inventory of small motors.
2
Question Explanation
2
Objectivity is not adversely affected when the internal auditor recommends standards of control for systems or reviews procedures before they are implemented. 
Persons transferred to or temporarily engaged by the IAA should not be assigned to audit those activities they previously performed until at least I year has elapsed. Such assignments are presumed to impair objectivity. Additional consideration is required when such persons are supervising the engagement work and communicating engagement results (PA I 130.A I -I). However, internal auditors may provide consulting services relating to operations for which they had previous responsibilities (Standard I 130.C I ), provided that prior disclosure is made to the client of any potential impairments of independence or objectivity (Standard I 130.C2). 
Objectivity is not adversely affected when the internal auditor recommends standards of control for systems or reviews procedures before they are implemented (PA I 120- I). 
Use of staff from other areas to assist the internal auditor does not impair objectivity, especially when the staff is from outside of the area where the engagement is being performed. 
131
The internal auditors must be able to distinguish carefully between a scope limitation and other
limitations. Which of the following is not considered a scope limitation?

The divisional management of an engagement client has indicated that the division is in the process of converting a major computer system and has indicated that the information systems portion of the planned engagement will have to be postponed until next year. 
The board reviews the engagement work schedule for the year and deletes an engagement that the chief audit executive thought was important to conduct. 
The engagement client has indicated that certain customers cannot be contacted because the organization is in the process of negotiating a long-'term contract with the customers and they do not want to upset the customers. 
None of the answers are correct.
2
Question Explanation
2
Postponing the portion of an engagement concerning a major computer system is a scope limitation. This delay restricts the performance of engagement procedures. Scope limitations need to be reported to the board (PA I 130.1 ). 
The board's decision to delete an engagement from the annual engagement work schedule is not a scope limitation. Its responsibility is to review and approve the IAA's plans and resource requirements (Standard 2020). 
Prohibiting contact with certain customers is a scope limitation. This prohibition restricts the performance of specific procedures. 
Other answer choices state scope limitations.
132
During the course of an engagement, an internal auditor makes a preliminary determination that
a major division has been inappropriately capitalizing research and development expense. The
engagement is not yet completed, and the internal auditor has not documented the problem or
determined that it really is a problem. However, the internal auditor is informed that the chief
audit executive has received the following communication from the president of the
organization:
&quot;The controller of Division B informs me that you have discovered a questionable account
classification dealing with research and development expense. We are aware of the issue. You
are directed to discontinue any further investigation of this matter until informed by me to
proceed. Under the confidentiality standard of your profession, I also direct you not to
communicate with the outside auditors regarding this issue.&quot;
Which of the following is an appropriate action for the CAE to take regarding the questionable
item?

Immediately report the communication to The Institute of Internal Auditors and ask for an ethical interpretation and guidance.
Inform the president that this scope limitation will need to be reported to the board.
Continue to investigate the area until all the facts are determined and document all the relevant facts in the engagement records.
Immediately notify the external auditors of the problem to avoid aiding and abetting a potential crime by the organization.
2
Question Explanation
2
The IIA has no authority in this matter.
If independence or objectivity is impaired in fact or appearance, the details of the impairment should be disclosed to appropriate parties. The nature of the disclosure will depend upon the impairment (Standard I 130). Impairment may include a scope limitation (Interpretation of Standard I 130). A scope limitation along with its potential effect need to be communicated, preferably in writing, to the board (PA I 130- I). 
The CAE needs first to consult the board. The CAE adds value by serving the organization, and the board may, in fact, be fully aware of the problem and may not want to incur additional costs. 
The engagement work is preliminary, and the internal auditor has not yet formed a basis for an opinion. Thus, contacting the external auditors is premature. However, if an inquiry is made by the external auditors, the internal auditors should share the work done to date. 
133
Which of the following combinations best illustrates a scope limitation and the appropriate
response by the CAE?
Nature of                               Internal
Limitation Audit Action

Engagement client limits         Report only to the scope based upon proprietary  controller information 
Engagement client will not     Report to the board provide access to records needed for approved work schedule 
Engagement client requests     Report directly to the that the engagement be            CEO and controller delayed for 2 weeks to allow 
E.	Engagement client will not           No reporting needed 														because the operational 														engagement concerns 														operational efficiency 														allow internal auditor to contact major customers as part of an engagement to evaluate the efficiency of operations 
2
Question Explanation
2
A scope limitation needs to be reported to the board.
A scope limitation is a restriction placed on the IAA that precludes it from accomplishing its objectives and plans. Among other things, a scope limitation may restrict the IAA's access to records, personnel, and physical properties relevant to the performance of engagements. A scope limitation and its potential effect need to be communicated, preferably in writing, to the board (PA 1130- 1). 
Merely delaying the engagement to permit closing the books is not usually considered a scope limitation. 
Reporting is necessary.
134
An internal auditor who had been supervisor of the accounts payable section should not
perform an assurance review of that section	

Because a reasonable period of time in which to establish independence cannot be determined.
Until at least I year has elapsed.
Until after the next annual review by the external auditors.
Until it is clear that the new supervisor has assumed the responsibilities.
2
Question Explanation
2
The issues are whether (I) objectivity (not independence) has been restored and (2) at least I year has elapsed. 
Persons transferred to, or temporarily engaged by, the internal audit activity should not be assigned to audit activities they previously performed until at least I year has elapsed. Such assignments are presumed to impair objectivity (PA I 130.A I -I). 
The external review does not bear any relation to restoring the internal auditor's objectivity. 
The new supervisor presumably would have assumed his/her responsibilities immediately. Hence, I year could not have elapsed. 
135
When an internal auditor has a potential impairment of independence or objectivity relating to a
proposed consulting engagement, what action must be taken?

 The internal auditor must immediately refuse the consulting engagement.
The internal auditor must disclose the potential impairment to the chief audit executive.
The internal auditor need not disclose the potential impairment and may accept the engagement.
The internal auditor must disclose the potential impairment to the engagement client prior to accepting the engagement.
4
Question Explanation
2
The internal auditor does not need to refuse the engagement but must properly disclose the potential impairment to the client. 
The internal auditor must disclose the potential impairment to the engagement client. 
The internal auditor must properly disclose the potential impairment to the engagement client before accepting the engagement. 
Standard I 130.C2 states that if independence or objectivity is potentially impaired in relation to a proposed consulting service, disclosure must be made to the engagement client prior to accepting the engagement. 
136
A treasury department employee transferred to the internal audit activity of the same
organization last month. The chief financial officer of the organization has suggested that,
because of the employee&quot;s significant knowledge in this area, it would be a good idea for the
employee to immediately begin an engagement to evaluate the treasury department. In this
circumstance, the employee should

Accept the engagement and begin work immediately.
Discuss the need for such an engagement with the employee's former superior, the treasurer.
Suggest that the engagement be performed by another member of the internal audit staff.
Offer to prepare an engagement work program but suggest that interviews with the employee's former co-workers be conducted by other members of the internal audit staff.
3
Question Explanation
2
The proposed engagement is presumed to impair objectivity.
Internal auditors are not to subordinate their judgment on engagement matters to that of others. 
Another internal auditor should be assigned. Persons transferred to or temporarily engaged by the internal audit activity should not be assigned to audit those activities they previously performed until at least 1 year has elapsed. Such assignments are presumed to impair objectivity, and additional consideration should be exercised when supervising the engagement work and communicating engagement results (PA 1130.Al- 1). 
The preparation of the engagement work program offers significant opportunities for bias. 
137
The internal audit activity encounters a scope limitation from senior management that will
affect the activity&quot;s ability to meet its goals and objectives for a potential engagement client.
The nature of the scope limitation needs to be	

Noted in the engagement working papers, but the engagement should be carried out as scheduled and the scope limitation worked around, if possible.
Communicated to the external auditors so they can investigate the area in more detail.
Communicated, preferably in writing, to the board.
Communicated to management stating that the limitation will not be accepted because it would impair the internal audit activity's independence.
3
Question Explanation
2
The limitation needs to be communicated first to the board.
No requirement or need to communicate the limitation to the external auditor exists. 
The internal audit plan, work schedules, staffing plans, and financial budgets inform senior management and the board of the scope of internal audit work and of any limitations placed on that scope (PA 2020-I). Furthermore, a scope limitation, along with its potential effect, needs to be communicated, preferably in writing, to the board (PA I 130- I). 
The IAA exists to help the organization achieve its objectives. Thus, the internal auditors must communicate with the board about conflicts with management. 
138
A multinational organization has an agreement with a value-added network (VAN) that
provides the encoding and communications transfer for the organization&quot;s electronic data
interchange (EDI) and electronic funds transfer (EFT) transactions. Before transfer of data to
the VAN, the organization performs online preprocessing of the transactions. The internal
auditor is responsible for assessing preprocessing controls. In addition, the agreement between
the organization and the VAN states that the internal auditor is allowed to examine and report
on the controls in place at the VAN on an annual basis. The contract specifies that access to the
VAN can occur on a surprise basis during the second or third quarter of the fiscal year. This
period was chosen so it would not interfere with processing during the VAN&quot;s peak transaction
periods. This provision was not reviewed with internal auditing. The annual engagement work
schedule approved by the board of directors specifies that a full review would be done during
the current year.
When the internal auditor called to arrange the annual control review during the third quarter,
the VAN stated that it could not accommodate the internal auditor because the peak processing
period started earlier than normal this year and all VAN personnel were occupied. This scope
limitation, along with its potential effect, must be communicated to which one of the
following?

The organization's board of directors.
The board of directors of the VAN.
The board of directors of both the organization and the VAN.
The limitation does not need to be communicated at the board of directors level.
1
Question Explanation
2
A scope limitation is a restriction that precludes the internal audit activity from accomplishing its objectives and plans. The scope limitation and its potential effect should be communicated, preferably in writing, to the board. However, the chief audit executive needs to consider whether it is appropriate to inform the board regarding scope limitations that were previously communicated to and accepted by the board (PA II 30-I). 
The internal auditor should not communicate directly with the board of the VAN. 
The internal auditor should not communicate directly with the board of the VAN. 
A scope limitation must be communicated to the board.
139
If impairments of independence or objectivity exist prior to commencement of a consulting
engagement or develop during the engagement, what action should be taken?

Disclosure should be made immediately to engagement client.
Disclosure should be made immediately to the board.
Disclosure should be made immediately to the external auditors.
The internal auditor should withdraw from the engagement.
1
Question Explanation
2
If internal auditors have potential impairments to independence or objectivity relating to proposed consulting services, disclosure must be made to the engagement client prior to accepting the engagement (PA I 130.C2) 
Disclosure should be made to the engagement client because it is the party benefiting from the consulting services. 
disclosure need be made to the external auditors.
An informed engagement client may not object to an impairment of independence or objectivity. 
140
Which of the following activities undertaken by the internal auditor might be in conflict with
the standard of independence?	

Risk management consultant.
Product development team leader.
Ethics advocate.
External audit liaison.
2
Question Explanation
2
An internal auditor's acting as a risk management consultant does not impair the independence of the internal audit activity. 
When the IAA, CAE, or an individual internal auditor is responsible for, or management is considering assigning, an operational responsibility that the IAA might audit, the internal auditor's independence and objectivity may be impaired (PA I 130.A2-I). The role of team leader or member of a product development team may conflict with the independence attribute of the internal audit activity. The auditor may participate as a consultant to the team but should not participate as a team leader. 
Internal auditors and the internal audit activity should take an active role in support of an organization's ethical culture, assuming the role of ethics advocate does not impair the internal auditor's independence. 
The internal and external audit functions share information and work collaboratively outside of the influence of management. This role does not conflict with the independence standard. 
141
An internal auditor assigned to audit a vendor&quot;s compliance with product quality standards is
the brother of the vendor&quot;s controller. The auditor should

 Accept the assignment, but avoid contact with the controller during fieldwork
Accept the assignment, but disclose the relationship in the engagement final communication.
Notify the vendor of the potential conflict of interest.
Notify the chief audit executive of the potential conflict of interest.
4
Question Explanation
2
Given a family connection with the auditee, even if the auditor avoids contact with the controller, the appearance of a conflict of interest exists. 
Situations of potential conflict of interest or bias should be avoided, not merely disclosed. 
Conflicts of interest are to be reported to the chief audit executive, not the vendor or engagement client. 
If independence or objectivity is impaired in fact or appearance, the details of the impairment should be disclosed to the appropriate parties (Standard II 30). PA II 30- I states that internal auditors are to report to the chief audit executive (CAE) any situations in which an actual or potential impairment to independence or objectivity may reasonably be inferred, or if they have questions about whether a situation constitutes an impairment to objectivity or independence. 
142
An internal auditor&quot;s objectivity could be compromised in all of the following situations except	

A conflict of interest.
An engagement client's familiarity with the internal auditor due to lack of rotation in assignments.
The internal auditor's assumption of operational duties on a temporary basis.
Reliance on an outside service provider when appropriate.
4
Question Explanation
2
Internal auditors are to report to the chief audit executive (CAE) any situations in which an actual or potential impairment to independence or objectivity may reasonably be inferred, or if they have questions about whether a situation constitutes an impairment to objectivity or independence. If the CAE determines that impairment exists or may be inferred, (s)he needs to reassign the auditor(s) (PA 1130- I). 
Staff assignments should be rotated periodically.  
Persons transferred to, or temporarily engaged by, the IAA should not be assigned to audit those activities they previously performed until at least one year has elapsed (PA II 30.Al-I).
The CAE is responsible for all significant professional judgments made throughout the engagement (PA 2340- I). Thus, the CAE should obtain competent advice and assistance if the internal auditors lack the knowledge, skills, or other competencies needed to perform all or part of the engagement (Standard 1210.A I ). Consulting an outside service provider is therefore appropriate in these circumstances. 
143
The internal audit activity should be free to audit and report on any activity that also reports to
its administrative head if it considers such coverage to be appropriate for its audit plan. Any
limitation in scope or reporting of results of these activities needs to be brought to the attention
of the	

Chief executive officer.
Chief financial officer.
External auditor.
Board.
4
Question Explanation
2
The CEO may be the administrative head of the IAA.
The CFO is also responsible for the organization's accounting functions. Thus, when a scope or reporting limitation exists, the CFO may be responsible for it. 
The external auditor should not be notified unless the board believes it is necessary. 
A scope limitation is a restriction placed upon the IAA that precludes the activity from accomplishing its objectives and plans. Among other things, a scope limitation may restrict (I) the scope defined in the charter; (2) the IAA's access to records, personnel, and physical properties relevant to the performance of engagements; (3) the approved engagement work schedule; (4) performance of necessary engagement procedures; and (5) approved staffing plan and financial budget. A scope limitation, along with its potential effect needs to be communicated, preferably in writing, to the board (PA I 130-I). 
144
Management for a snowboard manufacturer is considering outsourcing the design functions of
the company. Complying with the Standards, the internal audit activity may contribute by	

Assessing the effectiveness of outsourcing instead of using employees in meeting management's quality objectives.
Creating a checklist to use in selecting an external service provider.
Setting pay rates for multiple design projects, based on research of industry best practices 			in outsourcing.
Writing the contract for outsourcing.
1
Question Explanation
2
The IAA helps an organization accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes. When the IAA performs operational and other nonaudit activities, its objectivity and independence may be impaired. 
Creating a checklist prevents the IAA from being objective and independent in performing evaluations. 
Setting the pay rates prevents the IAA from being objective and independent in performing evaluations. 
Writing the contract prevents the IAA from being objective and independent in performing evaluations. 
145
Independence is freedom from conditions that threaten the ability of the internal audit activity
to carry out internal audit responsibilities in an unbiased manner. Which policy best promotes
independence?

Requiring internal auditors to report to the chief audit executive any conflicts of interest or bias.
Preventing the internal audit activity from recommending standards of control for systems that it evaluates.
Allowing engagements concerning sensitive operations to be outsourced.
Preventing personnel transfers from operating activities to the internal audit activity.
1
Question Explanation
2
Internal auditors are to report to the chief audit executive (CAE) any situation in which (I) an actual or potential impairment of independence or objectivity may reasonably be inferred, or (2) they have questions about whether the situation constitutes an impairment of objectivity or independence. If the CAE determines that impairment exists or may be inferred, (s)he needs to reassign the auditor(s) (PA 1130-I). 
Internal auditing may recommend standards of control for systems that it evaluates. 
. Outsourcing certain engagements does not promote the independence of the IAA. 
Transfers from operating activities to the IAA usually are permitted. However, transferees should not be assigned to engagements concerning activities they previously performed until at least I year has elapsed (PA I I 30.A I -I). 
146
An internal auditor has recently received an offer from the manager of the marketing
department of a weekend&quot;s free use of his beachfront condominium. No engagement is
currently being conducted in the marketing department, and none is scheduled. The internal
auditor

Should reject the offer and report it to the appropriate supervisor.
May accept the offer because its value is immaterial.
May accept the offer because no engagement is being conducted or planned.
May accept the offer if approved by the appropriate supervisor.
1
Question Explanation
2
An internal auditor is not to accept fees, gifts, or entertainment from an employee, client, customer, supplier, or business associate. Accepting a fee or gift may imply that the auditor' s objectivity has been impaired. Even though an engagement is not being conducted in the applicable area at that time, a future engagement may result in the appearance of impairment of objectivity. Thus, no consideration should be given to the engagement status as justification for receiving fees or gifts. The receipt of promotional items (such as pens, calendars, or samples) that are available to the general public and have minimal value do not hinder internal auditors' professional judgments (PA II 30-I). Impairment of independence or objectivity, in fact or appearance, must be disclosed to appropriate parties (Standard II 30). 
The value of a weekend vacation is not immaterial.
The status of engagements is not a justification for receiving fees or gifts. 
supervisor may not approve unethical behavior.
147
As part of a company-sponsored award program, an internal auditor was offered an award of
significant monetary value by a division in recognition of the cost savings that resulted from the
auditor&quot;s recommendations. According to the International Professional Practices Framework,
what is the most appropriate action for the auditor to take?

Accept the gift because the engagement is already concluded and the report issued.
Accept the award under the condition that any proceeds go to charity.
Inform audit management and ask for direction on whether to accept the gift.
Decline the gift and advise the division manager's superior.
3
Question Explanation
2
The auditor should not accept the gift, despite the previous completion of the engagement and issuance of the report. 
The auditor should not accept the award without first informing and consulting audit management. 
Internal auditors are not to accept fees, gifts, or entertainment from an employee, client, customer, supplier, or business associate that may create the appearance that the auditor's objectivity has been impaired. The status of engagements is not to be considered as justification for receiving fees, gifts, or entertainment. Internal auditors are to report immediately the offer of all material fees or gifts to their supervisors. (PA II 30-I). 
Declining the gift and advising the division manager's superior could erode the audit function's relationship with the division in question. The auditor should inform and consult audit management for guidance. 
148
An internal audit activity is currently undergoing its first external quality assurance review
since its formation 3 years ago. From interviews, the review team is informed of certain internal
auditor activities over the past year. Which of the following activities could affect the quality
assurance review team&quot;s evaluation of the objectivity of the internal auditors?

One internal auditor told the review team that, during an engagement to review the payroll function, the payroll manager approached the auditor. The manager indicated the need for an accountant to prepare financial statements for the manager's part-time business. The internal auditor agreed to perform this work for a reduced fee during non-work hours. 
During an engagement to review the construction of a building addition to the organization's headquarters, the vice president of facilities management gave the internal auditor a commemorative mug with the organization's logo. These mugs were distributed to all employees present at the ground-breaking ceremony. 
After reviewing the installation of a data processing system, the internal auditor made recommendations on standards of control. Three months after completion of the engagement, the engagement client requested the internal auditor's review of certain procedures for adequacy. The internal auditor agreed and performed this review. 
An internal auditor's participation was requested on a task force to reduce the organization's inventory losses from theft and shrinkage. This is the first consulting assignment undertaken by the internal audit activity. The internal auditor's role is to advise the task force on appropriate control procedures. 
1
Question Explanation
2
An internal auditor is not to accept a fee, gift, or entertainment from an employee, client, customer, supplier, or business associate that may create the appearance that the auditor's objectivity has been impaired (PA I 130-I). 
The receipt of promotional items with minimal value does not impair objectivity. 
Recommending standards of control before implementation does not impair the internal auditor's objectivity as long as (s)he does not assume operating responsibilities (PA II 20-I). 
Reviewing procedures before implementation does not impair the internal auditor's objectivity as long as (s)he does not assume operating responsibilities (PA 1120- I). 
149
Directors, management, external auditors, and internal auditors all play important roles in
creating proper control processes. Senior management is primarily responsible for

Establishing and maintaining an organizational culture.
Reviewing the reliability and integrity of financial and operational information.
Ensuring that external and internal auditors oversee the administration of the system of risk management and control processes.
Implementing and monitoring controls designed by the board of directors.
1

3
Management plans, organizes, and directs the performance of sufficient actions to provide reasonable assurance that goals and objectives will be achieved. Management periodically reviews its objectives and goals and modifies its processes to accommodate changes in internal and external conditions. Management also establishes and maintains an organizational culture, including an ethical climate that fosters control. 
Internal auditors are responsible for evaluating the adequacy and effectiveness of controls, including those relating to the reliability and integrity of financial and operational information (Standard 21 30.Al).
Senior management' s role is to oversee the establishment, administration, and assessment of the system of risk management and control processes (PA 2130- I).
The board has oversight responsibilities but ordinarily does not become involved in the details of operations.
150
Which of the following best describes the internal audit activity&quot;s purpose in evaluating the
adequacy of risk management, control, and governance processes?

To help determine the nature, timing, and extent of tests necessary to achieve engagement objectives. 
To ensure that material weaknesses in internal control are corrected.  
To determine whether the risk management, control, and governance processes provide reasonable assurance that the organization's objectives are achieved efficiently and economically.
To determine whether the risk management, control, and governance processes ensure that the accounting records are correct and that financial statements are fairly stated. 
3

3
The nature, timing, and extent of certain tests must be determined before the adequacy of control processes can be evaluated. 
Internal auditors have no authority to ensure correction of material weaknesses.
Adequacy of risk management, control, and governance processes is present if management has planned and designed them in a manner that provides reasonable assurance that the organization's objectives will be achieved efficiently and economically. Efficient performance accomplishes objectives in an accurate, timely, and economical fashion. Economical performance accomplishes objectives with minimal use of resources (i.e., cost) commensurate with the risk exposure. Reasonable assurance is provided if the most cost-effective measures are taken in the design and implementation stages to reduce risks and restrict expected deviations to a tolerable level. Thus, the design process begins with the establishment of objectives and goals. This is followed by connecting or interrelating concepts, parts, activities, and people in such a manner as to operate together to achieve the established objectives.
The scope of internal auditing is much broader than concern for the fairness of financial statements.
151
The purpose of the internal audit activity&quot;s evaluation of the effectiveness of existing risk
management processes is to determine that

Management has planned and designed so as to provide reasonable assurance of achieving objectives. 
Management directs processes so as to provide reasonable assurance of achieving objectives.
The organization's objectives will be achieved efficiently and economically.
The organization's objectives will be achieved in an accurate and timely manner and with minimal use of resources.
2

3
The adequacy of risk management processes concerns planning and design by management that provides reasonable assurance that objectives will be achieved efficiently and economically.   
Effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes is present if management directs processes in such a manner as to provide reasonable assurance that the organization' s objectives will be achieved. In addition to accomplishing the objectives and planned activities, management directs by authorizing activities and transactions, monitoring resulting performance, and verifying that the organization's processes are operating as designed.
The adequacy of risk management processes concerns planning and design by management that provides reasonable assurance that objectives will be achieved efficiently and economically.
The adequacy of risk management processes concerns planning and design by management that provides reasonable assurance that objectives will be achieved efficiently and economically.
152
After using the same public accounting firm for several years, the board of directors retained
another public accounting firm to perform the annual financial audit in order to reduce the
annual audit fee. The new firm has now proposed a one-&quot;time engagement relating to the cost-
effectiveness of the various operations of the business. The chief audit executive has been
asked to advise management in making a decision on the proposal. An argument can be made
that the internal audit activity is better able to perform such an engagement because

 External auditors may not possess the same depth of understanding of the organization as the internal auditors.
Internal auditors are required to be objective in performing engagements.
Engagement procedures used by internal auditors are different from those used by external auditors.
Internal auditors will not be vitally concerned with fraud and waste.
1

3
Internal auditors are more familiar than external auditors with the organization, including systems, people, and objectives. Their internal auditing evaluations, in the aggregate, provide information to appraise the overall management process. All business systems, processes, operations, functions, and activities within the organization are subject to the internal auditors' evaluations. The comprehensive scope of work of internal auditing should provide reasonable assurance that management's (I) risk management system is effective; (2) system of internal control is effective and efficient; and (3) governance process is effective by establishing and preserving values, setting goals, monitoring activities and performance, and defining the measures of accountability. 
Both internal and external auditors are required to be objective.
Internal and external auditors use the same techniques.
Internal auditors are vitally concerned with fraud and waste.
153
A manufacturer has been expanding rapidly and is considering adding a new production line.
Employees are currently working double shifts and receiving large amounts of overtime pay.
Demand for all of the organization&quot;s products is currently high, but management worries about
demand fluctuations with changes in the economy and technological developments by
competitors. Management is concerned with such issues as whether it is efficiently using its
resources, whether it is expanding too rapidly or not rapidly enough, whether employee morale
is decreasing, and whether future expansion should be financed internally or through debt. Of
the following management requests, which is within the normal scope of work of the internal
audit activity as stated in the Standards?

Perform an independent evaluation of management's planning process as a basis for making recommendations.
Talk with banks to identify financing alternatives and negotiate contract alternatives that will be presented to management for evaluation.
Analyze financing alternatives and present the alternatives to the audit committee.
Undertake a make-or'buy decision analysis to determine whether the organization should subcontract for part of its manufacturing versus adding capacity. Report the recommendation to management for approval. 
1

3
Internal auditors evaluate the whole management process of planning, organizing, and directing to determine whether reasonable assurance exists that objectives will be achieved. Such evaluations, in the aggregate, provide information to appraise the overall management process. All business systems, processes, operations, functions, and activities within the organization are subject to the internal auditors' evaluations. The comprehensive scope of work of the internal audit activity should provide reasonable assurance that management's risk management system is effective; that its system of internal control is effective and efficient; and that its governance process is effective by establishing and preserving value, setting goals, monitoring activities and performance, and defining the measures of accountability. 
Discussing financing alternatives with banks is a responsibility of management. Such an activity also has the potential to impair the independence of the IAA.
Analyzing financing options is a responsibility of the finance function. Moreover, information about the analysis should be directed to management or a finance committee of the board. The audit committee is concerned with oversight of internal and external auditing functions.
Make-or'buy decisions are a responsibility of management.
154
An adequate and effective system of internal control provides reasonable assurance that
objectives will be achieved. Controls may be preventive, detective, or directive. Which of the
following is a detective control for the procurement function?

Goods received are counted and compared with quantities on purchase order and receiving reports. 
The procurement function is organizationally separate from receiving, disbursing, and accounting.
Review and approval of each procurement action is required prior to the final issuance of a purchase order.
Prenumbered standard purchase order forms include all relevant terms required to be used in all applicable instances.
1

3
Accounting for all goods received and comparing quantities on purchase orders and receiving reports is a detective control. Detective controls are designed to detect and correct undesirable events that have occurred. They are necessary to measure the effectiveness of preventive controls. 
Segregation of duties is a preventive control. Preventive controls deter undesirable events from occurring.
Review and approval of each procurement action is a preventive control.
Using prenumbered standard purchase order forms is a preventive control.
155
The following are primary objectives of the overall management process:

I. Compliance with business norms
II.	. Identification of risk exposures
III.	I. Reliable operating information
IV.	 Providing earnings estimates to securities analysts

land II only.
I, II, and III.
II and III only.
I, II, and IV only.
2

3
Management also must create and provide reliable operating information. 
Management's primary objectives include compliance with laws, regulations, contracts, and ethical and business norms; identification of risk exposures and use of strategies to control them; and providing reliable operating information. Although estimating earnings can create an important goal for management, releasing those estimates to outside analysts is not a primary objective. Indeed, selective disclosure may create legal problems.
Management also has a primary objective of complying with business norms.
Management is responsible for creating reliable operating information but does not have a primary objective of reporting estimated earnings to securities analysts.
156
Control by management is the result of

Planning, organizing, and directing of organizational activities.
Ascertaining needs, identifying alternative courses of action, setting standards for measuring performance, and comparing outcomes with predetermined standards.
Authorizing and monitoring performance, and comparing actual performance with planned performance.
Determining efficiency and economy of operations, including whether objectives have been met.
1

3
A control is any action taken by management, the board, or other parties to enhance risk management and increase the likelihood that established objectives will be achieved. Management plans, organizes, and directs the performance of sufficient actions to provide reasonable assurance that objectives will be achieved. Thus, control by management is the result of proper planning, organizing, and directing. 
Ascertaining needs, identifying alternative courses of action, setting standards for measuring performance, and comparing outcomes with predetermined standards is a basic management function.
Authorizing and monitoring performance, and comparing actual performance with planned performance is a basic management function.
Determining efficiency and economy of operations, including whether objectives have been met is a basic management function.
157
Controls should be designed to provide reasonable assurance that

 Organizational objectives will be achieved economically and efficiently.
Management's plans have not been circumvented by worker collusion.
The internal audit activity's guidance and oversight of management's performance is accomplished economically and efficiently.
Management's planning, organizing, and directing processes are properly evaluated.
1

3
Risk management, control, and governance processes are adequate if management has planned and designed them in a manner providing reasonable assurance that the organization's objectives will be achieved economically and efficiently. Reasonable assurance is provided when the most cost-effective actions are taken in the design and implementation stages to reduce risks and restrict deviations to a tolerable level. 
Collusion is an inherent limitation of internal control.
Representatives of the organization's stakeholders (e.g., the board) provide oversight of risk and control processes administered by management.
Internal auditors evaluate management processes to determine whether reasonable assurance exists that objectives will be achieved.
158
The governance process is the way in which an organization chooses to conduct its affairs to
meet four key responsibilities. Which of the following are such responsibilities?
I. Complying with society&quot;s legal and regulatory rules.
II.	. Satisfying the generally accepted business norms of society.
III.	I. Providing overall benefit to society and enhancing the interests of the specific
stakeholders.
IV.	 Reporting fully and truthfully to owners, regulators, other stakeholders, and the general
public.

land II only. 
II and IV only.
I, III, and IV only.
I, II, III, and IV.
4

3
Items III and IV also are responsibilities of an organization's governance process. 
Items I and II also are key organizational responsibilities.
Item II also is one of the organization's responsibilities.
An organization uses various legal forms, structures, strategies, and procedures to ensure that it O Complies with society's legal and regulatory rules. O Satisfies the generally accepted business norms, ethical precepts, and social expectations of society. O Provides overall benefit to society and enhances the interests of the specific stakeholders in both the long- and short-term. O Reports fully and truthfully to its stakeholders and the public to ensure accountability for its decisions, actions, conduct, and performance. The way in which an organization chooses to conduct its affairs to meet those four responsibilities is commonly referred to as its governance process.
159
Internal auditors realize that, at times, corrective action is not taken even when agreed to by the
appropriate parties. Thus, in an assurance engagement, internal auditors should

 Decide the extent of necessary follow-up work.
Allow management to decide when to follow up because it is management's ultimate responsibility.
Decide to conduct follow-up work only if management requests the internal auditor's assistance.
Write a follow-up engagement communication with all observations and recommendations and their significance to the operations.
1

3
The CAE schedules follow-up as part of developing work schedules. Scheduling depends on the risk and exposure involved, the degree of difficulty, and the significance of timing in implementing corrective action (PA 2500.A I -I). 
Determining the timing of follow-up is not management's responsibility. It is the responsibility of the CAE.
Scheduling follow-up is the CAE's responsibility. Management's responsibility is to decide the appropriate action to be taken in response to reported engagement observations and recommendations.
The internal auditors must decide the extent of follow-up before submitting a follow-up engagement communication.
160
Follow-up activity may be required to ensure that corrective action has taken place for certain
observations made in an assurance engagement. The internal audit activity&quot;s responsibility to
perform follow-up activities as required should be defined in the

Internal audit activity's charter.
Mission statement of the audit committee.
Engagement memo issued prior to each engagement.
Purpose statement within applicable engagement communications.
1

3
Follow-up is a process by which internal auditors determine the adequacy, effectiveness, and timeliness of actions taken by management on reported engagement observations and recommendations, including those made by external auditors and others. Responsibility for follow-up in an assurance engagement should be defined in the IAA' s charter (PA 2500.A I -I). In a consulting engagement, the extent of monitoring of the disposition of results depends upon the agreement with the client. 
 Follow-up is not specified in the content of the audit committee's mission statement.
The engagement memo may contain a statement about responsibility for follow-up, but it should be based on the wording and authority of the IAA's charter.
Follow-up authority and responsibility may be cited in applicable engagement communications, but the definition should be stated first in the IAA's charter.
161
Why should organizations require assurance engagement clients to reply promptly and outline
the corrective action that has been implemented on reported observations?

 To remove items from the pending list as soon as possible.
To effect savings or to institute compliance as early as possible.
To indicate concurrence with the engagement observations.
To ensure that the engagement work schedule is kept up to date.
2

3
Removing items from the pending list concerns a mechanical and immaterial aspect of the communication process.  
The internal auditors determine whether (I) management has taken action or implemented the recommendation, and (2) the desired results (such as cost savings or compliance) were achieved or senior management or the board has assumed the risk of not taking action (PA 2500.A I -I). Consequently, it follows that the objectives of engagements and the timely reporting of observations and recommendations would be defeated if engagement clients do not promptly implement and report on corrective action.
The client may not concur with the observations and recommendations. This dispute may or may not be considered in closing the engagement.
Ensuring that the engagement work schedule is kept up to date is an administrative function of the IAA.
162
Assume that the internal auditors&quot; observations are so serious that, in their view, they require
immediate action by management. Which of the following statements regarding the internal
auditors&quot; responsibility with respect to communicating results and follow-up are true?
I. The actions taken are monitored by the internal auditors.
II.	. Assumption of risk is communicated to senior management and the board, even if the
engagement is not complete.
III.	I. The internal auditors test the actions implemented by management to determine whether
they remedy the problem.

 I only. 
II only.
Hand III only.
I, II, and III.
4

3
Assumption of risk is communicated to senior management and the board, even if the engagement is not complete, and the internal auditors test the actions implemented by management to determine whether they remedy the problem. 
The actions taken are monitored by the internal auditors, and the internal auditors test the actions implemented by management to determine whether they remedy the problem..
The actions taken are monitored by the internal auditors.
Certain reported observations and recommendations may be so significant as to require immediate action by management. Thus, the IAA monitors actions taken until the observation is corrected or the recommendation is implemented. The CAE should establish procedures to determine a time frame within which management's response is required, to evaluate the response, to verify the response, to conduct a follow-up engagement, and to transmit unsatisfactory responses or actions (including assumption of risk) to senior management or the board (PA 2500-I).
163
Upon reviewing the final communication of engagement results, senior management decided to
assume the risk of not implementing corrective action on certain engagement observations.
Evaluate the following and select the best alternative for the chief audit executive:

Notify regulatory authorities of management' s decision.
Perform additional engagement procedures to further identify the policy violations.
Conduct a follow-up engagement to determine whether corrective action was taken.
Discuss the matter with senior management and possibly the board if the residual risk accepted is excessive.
4

3
Regulatory authorities do not need to be notified. Management has decided to assume responsibility, and no regulatory violations were mentioned. 
Additional procedures are not required unless the CAE believes that the residual risk assumed is too great.
A follow-up engagement is not required unless the CAE believes that the residual risk assumed is too great.
According to Standard 2600, 'When the chief audit executive believes that senior management has accepted a level of residual risk that may be unacceptable to the organization, the chief audit executive must discuss the matter with senior management. If the decision regarding residual risk is not resolved, the chief audit executive must report the matter to the board for resolution.'
164
The survey discloses that corrective action was never taken on a prior reported assurance
engagement observation. Subsequent field work confirms that the condition still exists. Which
of the following actions should the internal auditors pursue?


 Take no action. To do otherwise would be an exercise of operational control.
Discuss the issue with the chief audit executive. The problem requires an ad hoc solution.
Discuss the issue with the person(s) responsible for the problem. (S)he or they should know how to solve the problem.
Order the person(s) responsible to correct the problem. (S)he or they have had long enough to do so
3

3
The condition observed may place the organization at risk until the situation changes or the condition is corrected. 
Conditions that have not been corrected are not unique and do not require ad hoc (improvised) solutions.
Internal auditors must follow up to determine whether management has taken action on reported observations or implemented reported recommendations. Internal auditors determine whether desired results were achieved or senior management or the board has assumed the risk of not taking action or implementing the recommendation (PA 2500.A I -I). Also, discussion of conclusions and recommendations occurs at appropriate levels of management before the CAE issues final engagement communications (PA 2440- I). Client management is at an appropriate level. Obtaining client cooperation (or at least understanding) is a vital part of the solution of any problem.
The internal auditors have no line authority over the client. To exercise such authority impairs objectivity.
165
An organization&quot;s internal auditors have conducted a series of assurance engagements. The
resulting recommendations have been readily accepted by engagement clients because of the
potential cost savings. Given the acceptance of the cost savings engagements and the scarcity of
internal audit resources, the manager in charge of these engagements also decided that follow-
up action was not needed. The manager reasoned that cost savings should be sufficient to
motivate the client to implement the engagement recommendations. Thus, follow-up was not
scheduled as a regular part of the engagement plan. Was the manager&quot;s decision appropriate?

Yes. Follow-up is not customary.
No. The internal auditors should determine whether the client has appropriately implemented all of the engagement recommendations.
No. Scarcity of resources is not a sufficient reason to omit follow-up.
Yes. Given sufficient evidence of motivation by the client, follow-up is not needed.
3

3
Follow-up is required. 
Follow-up determines what management actions have been taken, not merely whether the engagement recommendations have been implemented.
The CAE must establish and maintain a system to monitor the disposition of results communicated to management (Standard 2500). Accordingly, follow-up is required. Cost (lack of resources) is a factor in determining the nature, timing, and extent of follow-up, not in determining whether to follow up. For example, in some instances, the CAE may judge that management's oral or written response indicates that action taken is sufficient when weighed against the relative importance of the observation or recommendation. On such occasions, follow-up may be part of the next engagement (PA 2500.A I -I). In these circumstances, follow-up is delayed, not omitted.
Follow-up is required.
166
What action must the chief audit executive take when (s)he believes that senior management
has accepted a level of residual risk that is unacceptable to the organization?

Report the matter to the board for resolution.
Report the matter to an external authority.
Discuss the matter with external auditors.
Discuss the matter with senior management.
4

3
The CAE must report the matter to the board for resolution when a decision is not resolved after a discussion with senior management. 
The matter must be discussed with senior management.
 The CAE must discuss the matter with senior management.
When the CAE believes that senior management has accepted a level of residual risk that is unacceptable to the organization, (s)he must discuss the matter with senior management. If the decision regarding residual risk is not resolved, the CAE must report the matter to the board for resolution (Standard 2600).
167
Management has requested the audit department to conduct an audit of the implementation of
its recently developed company code of conduct. In preparing for the audit, the auditor reviews
the newly developed code and compares it with several others for comparable companies and
concludes that the newly developed code has severe deficiencies. Based on this conclusion, the
auditor should

Plan an audit for the implementation of management's code of conduct and also for compliance with the 'best practices' from the other codes since this represents the best available criteria. 
Report the nature of the deficiencies in a formal report to management.
Inform management of the problems with the existing code and report that it would be inappropriate to conduct an audit until the code is revised to incorporate the 'best practices' from industry.
Conduct the audit as requested by management, reporting only noncompliance with the code.
2

3
The auditors should not conduct an audit of compliance with criteria that have never been communicated to the auditees. 
Management is responsible for establishing criteria to determine whether objectives have been accomplished. If the internal auditors believe that the established criteria are inadequate, they should report such conditions to the appropriate levels of management and may recommend appropriate courses of action
Conducting the audit is appropriate if management wants feedback about the implementation of its code.
The auditor must communicate the deficiencies to management.
168
The role of the internal audit activity in the ethical culture of an organization is to
Avoid active support of the ethical culture because of possible loss of independence. 
Evaluate the effectiveness of the organization's formal code of conduct.
Assume accountability for the effectiveness of the governance process.
Become the chief ethics officer.
2

3
Internal auditors must be active ethics advocates. However, assuming the role of, for example, chief ethics officer may, in some circumstances, impair individual objectivity and the IAA's independence. 
According to Standard 2110.A I , 'The internal audit activity must evaluate the design, implementation, and effectiveness of the organization's ethics-related objectives, programs, and activities.'  As part of this assessment, internal auditors evaluate the effectiveness of the organization' s formal code of conduct.
The organization's board and its senior management are responsible for the effectiveness of the governance process.
The internal auditor's basic role is to be the assessor of the ethical culture. However, an internal auditor may become chief ethics officer or a member of an ethics council, although the first role may, in some circumstances, impair individual objectivity and the IAA's independence.
169
The internal audit activity should contribute to the organization&quot;s governance process by
evaluating the processes through which
I. Ethics and values are promoted.
II.	. Effective organizational performance management and accountability are ensured.
III.	I. Risk and control information is communicated.
IV.	 Activities of the external and internal auditors and management are coordinated.

I only. 
IV only.
II and III only.
I, II, III, and IV.
4

3
The IAA also evaluates the processes through which effective organizational performance management and accountability are ensured, risk and control information is communicated, and activities of the external and internal auditors and management are coordinated. 
The IAA also evaluates the processes through which ethics and values are promoted, effective organizational performance management and accountability are ensured, and risk and control information is communicated.
The IAA also evaluates the processes through which ethics and values are promoted and activities of the external and internal auditors and management are coordinated.
According to Standard 2110, 'The internal audit activity must assess and make appropriate recommendations for improving the governance process in its accomplishment of the following objectives: O Promoting appropriate ethics and values within the organization. 0 Ensuring effective organizational performance management and accountability. 0 Communicating risk and control information to appropriate areas of the organization. O Coordinating the activities of and communicating information among the board, external and internal auditors, and management.'
170
Management and the board of directors are responsible for following up on observations and
recommendations made by the external auditors. What role, if any, should the internal audit
activity have in this process?

The internal audit activity should have no role in this process in order to ensure independence. 
The internal audit activity should only become involved if the chief audit executive has sufficient evidence that the follow-up is not occurring.
The internal audit activity should establish a monitoring process to review the adequacy and effectiveness of management's follow-up actions.
The internal audit activity should become involved only if specifically requested by management or the board of directors.
3

3
Internal audit activity independence is not impaired by participating in the follow-up process. 
The internal audit activity should be involved throughout the follow- up process.
The chief audit executive must establish a follow-up process to monitor and ensure that management actions have been effectively implemented or that senior management has accepted the risk of not taking action (Standard 2500.Al). Internal auditors follow up by determining whether (I) adequate, effective, and timely corrective action has been taken or (2) senior management or the board has assumed the risk of not taking action (PA 2500.A I -I).
The internal audit activity should be involved throughout the follow- up process.
171
Which of the following statements regarding corporate governance is not correct?

Corporate control mechanisms include internal and external mechanisms.
The compensation scheme for management is part of the corporate control mechanisms.
The dilution of shareholders' wealth resulting from employee stock options or employee stock bonuses is an accounting issue rather than a corporate governance issue.
The internal auditor of a company has more responsibility than the board for the company's corporate governance.
4

3
Corporate control mechanisms include both internal (e.g., internal auditing) and external (e.g., external auditing) mechanisms. 
Management's compensation scheme is part of the control environment, specifically, the human resource element.
The dilution of shareholder's wealth resulting from employee stock options or employee stock bonuses is an accounting issue. Governance is 'the combination of processes and structures implemented by the board to inform, direct, manage, and monitor the activities of the organization toward the achievement of its objectives' (Glossary).
The internal audit activity must assess and make appropriate recommendations for improving the governance process. The organization's board and its senior management, not the internal auditor, are accountable for the effectiveness of the governance process.
172
Management is beginning to take corrective action on personnel department deficiencies
reported during the last engagement performed by the internal audit activity. The internal
auditor should	

Oversee the corrective action.
Postpone the next engagement of the personnel department until the corrective action is completed.
Refrain from judging whether the corrective action will remedy the deficiencies.
Follow up to see that the corrective action satisfies the engagement recommendations.
4

3
Internal auditors should not perform operating functions. 
A follow-up engagement should be considered if engagement observations were especially significant. Moreover, no reason is given for postponing the next regular engagement.
Internal auditors must determine that management actions have been effectively implemented or that senior management has accepted the risk of not taking action.
The CAE must establish a follow'up process to monitor and ensure that management actions have been effectively implemented or that senior management has accepted the risk of not taking action (Standard 2500.A I ).
173
A follow-up review found that a significant internal control weakness had not been corrected.
The chief audit executive (CAE) discussed this matter with senior management and was
informed of management&quot;s willingness to accept the risk. The CAE must

Do nothing further because management is responsible for deciding the appropriate action to be taken in response to reported engagement observations and recommendations. 
Initiate a fraud investigation to determine if employees had taken advantage of the internal control weakness.
Inform senior management that the weakness must be corrected and schedule another follow-up review.
Assess the reasons that senior management decided to accept the risk and inform the board of senior management's decision.
4

3
The CAE and senior management should report the matter to the board if the CAE believes that the residual risk may be unacceptable.  
The facts do not indicate that employee fraud is an issue.
The CAE has no authority to require corrective action.
According to Standard 2600, 'When the chief audit executive believes that senior management has accepted a level of residual risk that may be unacceptable to the organization, the chief audit executive must discuss the matter with senior management. If the decision regarding residual risk is not resolved, the chief audit executive and senior management must report the matter to the board for resolution.'
174
A chief audit executive initiated a review of the organization&quot;s code of ethics and the
environment for ethical decision making. Which of the following would most likely be
considered inappropriate regarding the scope or recommendations of the engagement?

 A review of the code of ethics and a comparison with other such codes.
A survey of employees, asking general questions regarding the ethical quality of the organization's decision making.
Administration of an anonymous 'ethics test' to determine if employees know of unethical behavior or have acted unethically themselves.
A survey of the board of directors to determine their level of support for the organization's code of ethics.
4

3
A review of the code of ethics and a comparison with other such codes is included within the normal scope of this type of engagement. 
Testing employees is not prohibited by the Standards.
Testing employees is not prohibited by the Standards.
The internal audit activity is ultimately responsible to the board of directors, a body that approves the definition of the purpose, authority, and responsibility of the internal audit activity. Thus, surveying the board is inappropriate.
175
A basic principle of governance is

Assessment of the governance process by an independent internal audit activity.
Holding the board, senior management, and the internal audit activity accountable for its effectiveness.
Exclusive use of external auditors to provide assurance about the governance process.
Separation of the governance process from promoting an ethical culture in the organization.
1

3
Governance includes effective use of internal auditors, ensuring (I) their independence, (2) the adequacy of their resources and scope of activities, and (3) the effectiveness of operations. 
The IAA is an assessor of the governance process. It is not accountable for that process.
External parties and internal auditors may provide assurance about the governance process.
The IAA must assess and make recommendations for improving the governance process in its promotion of appropriate ethics and values within the organization (Standard 21 I O).
176
Which of the following is most likely an internal audit role in a less structured governance
process?

 Designing specific governance processes.
Playing a consulting role in optimizing governance practices and structure.
Providing advice about basic risks to the organization.
Evaluating the effectiveness of specific governance processes.
3

3
Internal auditors impair their objectivity by designing processes. However, auditing the design and effectiveness of specific processes is typical of designing specific governance processes. 
Playing a consulting role in optimizing governance practices and structure is typical of a more structured internal auditing governance maturity model. The emphasis shifts to considering best practices and adapting them to the specific organization.
 A less mature governance system will emphasize the requirements for compliance with policies, procedures, plans, laws, regulations, and contracts. It will also address the basic risks to the organization. Thus, the IAA will provide advice about such matters. As the governance process becomes more structured, the IAA's emphasis will shift to optimizing the governance structure and practices.
 Evaluating the effectiveness of specific governance processes is typical of a more structured internal auditing governance maturity model.
177
Ensuring effective organizational performance management and accountability is most directly
the proper function of

 Control.
Governance.
Risk management.
A quality assurance program.
2

3
Governance (not control) is directly responsible for ensuring effective organizational performance management and accountability. 
The internal audit activity must assess and make appropriate recommendations for improving the governance process in its accomplishment of the following objectives: O Promoting appropriate ethics and values within the organization. 0 Ensuring effective organizational performance management and accountability. O Communicating risk and control information to appropriate areas of the organization. 0 Coordinating the activities of and communicating information among the board, external and internal auditors and management. (Standard 2110)
 Governance (not risk management) is directly responsible for ensuring effective organizational performance management and accountability.
A quality assurance program normally is implemented for an organizational unit, e.g., the IAA.
178
Which of the following statements best describes an internal auditor&quot;s responsibility for follow-
up activities related to a previous engagement?

The internal auditor must determine that corrective action has been taken and is achieving the desired results or that management or the board has assumed the risk of not taking corrective action.    
The internal auditor must determine that management has initiated corrective action, but the internal auditor has no responsibility to determine if the action is achieving the desired results. That determination is solely management's responsibility.
The chief audit executive is responsible for scheduling follow-up activities only if directed to do so by senior management or the audit committee. Otherwise, follow-up is entirely discretionary.
None of the answers are correct.
1

3
The CAE must establish a follow-up process to monitor and ensure that management actions have been effectively implemented or that senior management has accepted the risk of not taking action (Standard 2500.A I ). Internal auditors determine whether management has taken action or implemented the recommendation. The internal auditor determines whether (a) the desired results were achieved or (b) senior management or the board has assumed the risk of not taking action or implementing the recommendation. 
The internal auditor is responsible for determining that the action taken by senior management is achieving the desired results.
The CAE is responsible for performing follow-up activities.
Internal auditors determine whether management has taken action or implemented the recommendation. The internal auditor determines whether (a) the desired results were achieved or (b) senior management or the board has assumed the risk of not taking action or implementing the recommendation.
179
The board is responsible for implementing

I. Risk management
II.	. Governance
III.	I. Control

I only.
II only.
III only.
II and III only.
2

3
Implementation of risk management is a key responsibility of management at all levels. 
Governance is the combination of processes and structures implemented by the board to inform, direct, manage, and monitor the activities of the organization toward the achievement of its objectives (Glossary). Risk management is a key responsibility of senior management and the board. But the board's role is to provide oversight (PA 2120- I). Senior management's role is to oversee the establishment, administration, and assessment of the system of risk management and control processes (PA 2130- I).
Senior management's role is to overall the establishment, administration, and assessment of the system of risk management and control processes (PA 2130- I).
Implementation of risk management and control processes are key responsibilities of management at all levels.
180
Which of the following is not a responsibility of the chief audit executive?

 To communicate the internal audit activity's plans and resource requirements to senior management and the board for review and approval.
To coordinate with other internal and external providers of audit and consulting services to ensure proper coverage and minimize duplication.
To oversee the establishment, administration, and assessment of the organization's system of risk management processes.
To follow up on whether appropriate management actions have been taken on significant reported risks.
3

3
The CAE should communicate the internal audit activity's plans and resource requirements, including significant interim changes, to senior management and to the board for review and approval. The CAE also should communicate the impact of resource limitations (Standard 2020). 
The CAE should share information and coordinate activities with other internal and external providers of relevant assurance and consulting services to ensure proper coverage and minimize duplication of efforts (Standard 2050).
Overseeing the establishment, administration, and assessment of the organization's system of risk management processes is the role of senior management, not the CAE (PA 2130- 1).
The CAE should establish and maintain a system to monitor the disposition of results communicated to management (Standard 2500).
181
Which of the following is not a role of the internal audit activity in best practice governance
activities?

Support the board in enterprise-wide risk assessment.
Ensure the timely implementation of audit recommendations.
Monitor compliance with the corporate code of conduct.
Discuss areas of significant risks.
2

3
One IAA role is to support the board in enterprise-wide risk assessment. The board and management are responsible for the identification of an appropriate risk model and methodology.  
Management has the responsibility of ensuring the timely implementation of the audit recommendations. The IAA is responsible for the development of a timely procedure to monitor the disposition of the audit recommendations. It works with senior management and the board to ensure that audit recommendations receive appropriate attention.
The IAA should monitor compliance with the corporate code of conduct set by the board and management.
The IAA is responsible for discussing significant financial, technical, and operational risks and exposures as well as the plans to minimize such risks
182
The internal audit activity evaluates controls in response to risks in governance systems
regarding

Compliance with contracts.
Strategic planning.
Formation of a governance committee of the board.
Formation of an audit committee of the board.
1

3
The IAA must evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of controls in responding to the risks within the organization's governance, operations, and information systems regarding the (1) reliability and integrity of financial and operational information; (2) effectiveness and efficiency of operations and programs; (3) safeguarding of assets; and (4) compliance with laws, regulations, policies, procedures, and contracts (Standard 2130.Al ). 
Strategic planning is part of the governance function of strategic direction. The assurance provided by the IAA is part of the governance function of oversight.
The IAA does not address the formation of board committees.
 As part of its assurance function, the IAA does not address formation of board committees.
183
Compliance programs assist organizations by doing which of the following?
I. Evaluating business continuity
II.	. Determining director and officer liability
III.	I. Evaluating disaster recovery plans

I only.
II only.
l and II only.
I, II, and III.
2

3
Evaluating business continuity is a way in which, for example, e-_commerce activities, not compliance programs, assist an organization. 
Compliance programs assist organizations in preventing inadvertent employee violations, detecting illegal activities, and discouraging intentional employee violations. They can also help (I) prove insurance claims, (2) determine director and officer liability, (3) create or enhance corporate identity, and (4) decide the appropriateness of punitive damages. Evaluating the business continuity and disaster recovery plans are major components of auditing e-commerce activities.
Evaluating business continuity is a way in which, for example, e-_commerce activities, not compliance programs, assist an organization.
Evaluating the business continuity and disaster recovery plans are both major components of auditing e-commerce activities.
184
An organization should establish compliance standards and procedures and should develop a
written business code of conduct to be followed by its employees. Which of the following is
true concerning business codes of conduct and the compliance standards?

Compliance standards should be straightforward and reasonably capable of reducing the prospect of criminal conduct.
The compliance standards should be codified in the charters of the audit committee.
International organizations should create various compliance programs, based on selective geographic locations, that reflect appropriate local regulations.
To prevent future legal liability, the code should consist of legal terms and definitions.
1

3
The code of conduct should clearly identify prohibited activities, making compliance standards reasonably capable of reducing the prospect of criminal conduct (i.e., discouraging intentional employee violations). Irl addition, codes that are straightforward and fair tend to decrease the risk that employees will engage in unethical or illegal behavior. 
The compliance standards need only be codified in the code of conduct.
International organizations should create compliance programs on a global basis, not just for selective geographic locations. Such programs should reflect appropriate local conditions, laws, and regulations.
The code should be written in a language that all employees can understand, avoiding legalese.
185
Which organization is least likely to have a good compliance environment?

An international organization that creates a global compliance program that reflects local conditions, laws, and regulations.
An organization that creates an organizational chart identifying personnel who are responsible for implementing compliance programs.
An organization whose code of conduct provides guidance to employees on relevant issues.
An organization that rewards employees for charging travel hours to take advantage of the tax benefits.
4

3
Creating a global compliance program that reflects local conditions, laws, and regulations suggests a good compliance environment. 
Creating an organizational chart identifying personnel who are responsible for implementing compliance programs suggests a good compliance environment.
An organization whose code of conduct provides guidance to employees on relevant issues most likely has a good compliance environment.
An organization using reward systems that attach financial incentives to apparently unethical or illegal behavior can expect a poor compliance environment. For instance, an organization rewarding employees for charging travel hours makes itself vulnerable to fraud. Employees may charge false travel hours to receive additional rewards. Thus, the tax benefit of such an incentive may be negated by fraudulent employee practices. A good compliance environment is created when an organization O Develops a written, straightforward business code of conduct that clearly identifies prohibited activities, provides guidance to employees on relevant issues, and decreases the risk that employees will engage in unethical or illegal behavior. O Creates an organizational chart identifying board members, senior officers, a senior compliance officer, and department personnel who are responsible for implementing compliance programs. O Creates a compliance program on a global basis, not just for selective geographic locations, to reflect appropriate local conditions, laws, and regulations.
186
Environmental compliance information and training is most applicable, and should be
provided, to which of the following departments?

Sales.
Human resources.
Manufacturing.
Information technology.
3

3
Environmental compliance is not vital to the job requirements of the departments ' employees. In addition, they have a low likelihood of violating or detecting violations of such laws and regulations. Furthermore, providing such information and training to a department with no such responsibilities could be detrimental, inspiring employee apathy or a belief that the program was not well constructed. 
Environmental compliance is not vital to the job requirements of the departments' employees. In addition, they have a low likelihood of violating or detecting violations of such laws and regulations. Furthermore, providing such information and training to a department with no such responsibilities could be detrimental, inspiring employee apathy or a belief that the program was not well constructed.
When presenting compliance information and training, different sets of employees should be targeted based on areas important to each functional group, and the information should be tailored to that group's job requirements. Environmental compliance, in this case, is not in reference to the market or information technology environment, but the physical environment. Thus, information regarding environmental compliance is most applicable to the manufacturing department. It has an increased likelihood of violating or detecting violations of such laws and regulations.
Environmental compliance is not vital to the job requirements of the departments' employees. In addition, they have a low likelihood of violating or detecting violations of such laws and regulations. Furthermore, providing such information and training to a department with no such responsibilities could be detrimental, inspiring employee apathy or a belief that the program was not well constructed.
187
The chief compliance officer of an organization should report to the

Chief executive officer.
Chief general counsel.
Chief operating officer.
Chief audit executive.
1

3
It is not enough for an organization to create the position of chief compliance officer and to select the rest of the compliance unit. The organization should also ensure that these personnel are appropriately empowered and supplied with the resources necessary for carrying out their mission. Furthermore, compliance personnel should have adequate access to senior management. A reporting structure in which the chief compliance officer reports directly to the chief executive officer (CEO) is optimal. 
The chief general counsel in many organizations is assigned chief compliance responsibilities. In many organizations, however, this structure may convince employees that management is not committed to the program and that the program is important only to the legal department. Anyone assigned chief compliance responsibilities should report to the CEO.
The chief compliance officer should report to the CEO, not the COO.
The chief compliance officer should report to the CEO, not the CAE.
188
An organization should use due care not to delegate substantial discretionary authority to
individuals the organization knows have a propensity to engage in illegal activities. Which of
the following are steps an organization can take to ensure that such individuals are detected?
I. Screening of applicants for employment at all levels for evidence of past wrongdoing,
especially past criminal convictions within the industry.
II.	. Asking professionals about any history of discipline by licensing boards.
III.	I. Performing nonconsensual background checks on employees&quot; or applicants&quot; credit reports
to ensure that they are financially sound and are unlikely to commit theft or fraud.

I only.
III only.
land II only.
I, II, and III.
3

3
Asking professionals about any history of discipline by licensing boards is another step that a company can take to protect itself against individuals that are disposed to engage in illegal activities. 
Performing checks on an employee's or applicant's credit report, no matter how good the reason, infringes upon their privacy rights under applicable laws. Thus, such an act is considered illegal, and the organization can be held liable.
As part of the exercise of due diligence, an organization can take steps to protect itself against individuals who have a propensity to engage in illegal activities. For instance, an organization can screen applicants for employment at all levels for evidence of past wrongdoing, especially that within the organization's industry. Furthermore, it may inquire as to past criminal convictions, and professionals may be asked about any history of discipline by licensing boards. Care should be taken, however, to ensure that the organization does not infringe upon employees' and applicants' privacy rights under applicable laws. Many jurisdictions have laws limiting the amount of information an organization may obtain in performing background checks on employees.
Performing checks on an employee's or applicant's credit report, no matter how good the reason, infringes upon their privacy rights under applicable laws. Thus, such an act is considered illegal, and the organization can be held liable.
189
An ombudsperson is most effective when (s)he

I. Is located on-site.
II.	. Reports to the chief compliance officer or the board.
III.	I. Is located off-site.
IV.	 Reports to no one, thus protecting a whistle-blower&quot;s identity.

 II only.
I and II only.
I and IV only.
III and IV only.
2

3
Being located on-site also promotes an ombudsperson' s effectiveness. 
Use of an ombudsperson is more effective if (s)he is on-site, reports directly to the chief compliance officer or the board, keeps the names of whistleblowers secret, provides guidance to whistleblowers, and undertakes follow-up review to ensure that retaliation has not occurred. An ombudsperson must report to someone at a high level in the organization who is empowered to initiate a change in organizational policies based on the ombudsperson's findings. Thus, reporting to no one is not an option. In addition, an ombudsperson's presence on-site promotes employee confidence.
 An ombudsperson must report to someone at a high level in the organization that can initiate a change in organization policies.
An ombudsperson should report to someone in the organization who can initiate change based on the ombudsperson's findings. Moreover, (s)he should be located on-site to promote employee confidence.
190
Employees have the most confidence in a hotline monitored by which of the following?


An expert from the legal department, backed by a nonretaliation policy.
An in-house representative, backed by a retaliation policy.
An in-house representative, backed by a nonretaliation policy.
An off-site attorney who can better protect attorney-client privilege. 
3

3
Employees have little confidence in hotlines answered by the legal department.
A retaliation policy would dissuade whistleblowers from coming forth due to concern of possible backlash.
Although an attorney monitoring the hotline is better able to protect attorney-client and work-product privileges, one study observed that employees have little confidence in hotlines answered by the legal department or by an outside service. The same study showed that employees have even less confidence in write-in reports or an off-site ombudsperson, but have the most confidence in hotlines answered by an in-house representative (or an on-site ombudsperson) and backed by a nonretaliation policy.
Employees have little confidence in hotlines monitored by the legal department or by an outside service. Thus, they would have even less confidence in an outside attorney.
191
An internal audit plan should include a review of the organization&quot;s compliance program and
its procedures, including reviews to determine all but which of the following?

The effectiveness of written materials.
The receipt of communications by employees.
The appropriate handling of detected violations.
The performance of full background checks on employees and new hires.
4

3
 A review of the effectiveness of written materials is included in an internal audit plan with regard to the organization's compliance program and procedures.
A review of the receipt of communications by employees is included in an internal audit plan with regard to the organization's compliance program and procedures.
A review of the appropriate handling of detected violations is included in an internal audit plan with regard to the organization's compliance program and procedures.
The audit plan should include a review of the compliance program and its procedures. The review should determine whether (1) written materials are effective, (2) communications have been received by employees, (3) detected violations have been appropriately handled, (4) discipline has been even-handed, (5) whistleblowers have been protected, and (6) the compliance unit has fulfilled its responsibilities. The auditors should review the compliance program to determine whether it can be improved and should solicit employee input. Moreover, organizations should screen applicants for employment at all levels and inquire as to past criminal convictions, taking care not to infringe upon employees' and applicants' privacy rights. However, a review of the performance of full background checks is not included in an audit plan as part of the review of an organization's compliance program.
192
Which of the following is an effective tool for uncovering unethical or illegal activity in an
organization?


 The screening of applicants.
The ethics interview.
The background check.
The ethics questionnaire.
4

3
Screening applicants for employment is a way to detect past criminal activity and wrongdoing. Thus, it is of no use in uncovering unethical or currently ongoing illegal activity. 
An ethics interview may cause discomfort to an employee, and an employee may not believe that the interview is protected by privilege or as confidential as an ethics questionnaire.
The background check is a way to detect past wrongdoing, not ongoing unethical or illegal activities.
 An effective tool for uncovering unethical or illegal activity is the ethics questionnaire. Each employee of the organization should receive a questionnaire that asks whether the employee is aware of kickbacks, bribes, or other wrong''doing.
193
Which of the following are appropriate punishments for those who violate an organization&quot;s
code of conduct?
I. A warning
II.	. Loss of pay
III.	I. Suspension
IV.	 Termination

land II only.
I, III, and IV only.
I, II, and III only.
I, II, III, and IV.
4

3
Suspension and termination also are ways in which an organization may appropriately punish a code of conduct violator.
Loss of pay also is a way in which an organization may appropriately punish a code of conduct violator.
Termination also is a way in which an organization may appropriately punish a code of conduct violator.
Those who violate the code of conduct should receive punishment appropriate to the offense, such as warning, loss of pay, suspension, transfer, or termination. Thus, if an employee is found to have committed some illegal act, the organization might have to terminate that employee. This action is consistent with the organization's obligation to use due care not to delegate substantial discretionary authority to individuals whom the organization knew, or should have known through the exercise of due diligence, had a tendency to commit crimes.
194
Termination or other discipline of employees may be limited by all of the following except

 Whistleblower laws.
Employer responsibilities with regard to employer good faith doctrines.
Union contracts.
The employee-at-will doctrine.
4

3
Whistleblower laws limit the termination or other discipline of employees.
Employer responsibilities with regard to employer good faith doctrines limit the termination or other discipline of employees.
Union contracts limit the termination or other discipline of employees.
Termination or other discipline of employees may be limited by (I) whistleblower laws; (2) exceptions to the employee-at-will doctrine; (3) employee or union contracts; and (4) employer responsibilities with regard to discrimination, wrongful discharge, and employer good faith doctrines. The employee-at-will doctrine allows an employer to terminate employment for any reason and without justification. Exceptions may arise from, for example, union contracts. Moreover, under some laws, employers must act in good faith even under the employee-at-will doctrine.
195
An organization with an effective regulatory compliance program displays which of the
following characteristics?

It punishes unethical or illegal activity based on seniority.
It disciplines those who knew of the misconduct and did not report it, but not those who should have known but did not know.
After an offense is detected, the organization takes the necessary steps, short of modifying its program, to prevent further similar offenses.
It thoroughly documents employee discipline.
4

3
Discipline under the program must be fair. The program has slight chance of succeeding if unethical or illegal activity goes unpunished, especially if tied to the activities of senior management or big producers. Ignored wrongdoing by such persons will encourage wrongful behavior in the rest of the workforce.  
The program should provide for the discipline of managers and other responsible persons who knew or should have known of misconduct and did not report it.
After an offense has been detected, the organization should take all reasonable steps to respond appropriately and prevent further similar offenses. Any necessary modifications to its program to prevent and detect violations of law should be made.
Organizations should be thorough in documenting employee discipline. The organization should be able to prove that it made its best efforts to collect information with regard to any incident and took appropriate action based upon the information available.
196
Which of the following are appropriate responses to an offense detected by an organization&quot;s
compliance program?
I. Disciplinary action taken against those engaged in misconduct
II.	. Self-reporting the violation to the government
III.	I. Acceptance of responsibility for the violation
IV.	 Cooperation with governmental investigations	

land II only.
I and III only.
I, II, and III only.
I, II, III, and IV.
4

3
Acceptance of responsibility for the violation and cooperation with governmental investigations also are appropriate responses to an offense detected by an organization's compliance program. 
Self-reporting the violation to the government and cooperation with governmental investigations also are appropriate responses to an offense detected by an organization's compliance program.
Cooperation with governmental investigations also is an appropriate response to an offense detected by an organization' s compliance program.
An organization should respond appropriately to each offense detected by the compliance program. Appropriate responses include disciplinary action taken with regard to those who engaged in misconduct. In some circumstances, an appropriate response could require self-reporting the violation to the government, cooperation with governmental investigations, and the acceptance of responsibility for the violation. Making these responses could result in a court's reduction of the amount of the organization's fine. A similar result may follow when the compliance program is effective.
197
What is the role of a chief audit executive (CAE) with regard to an inspection by a regulator?

Meet with the regulator before and after the inspection to provide relevant information or receive advice on necessary compliance.
Meet with the regulator after the inspection to dispute any negative findings about compliance.
Tour the facility with the regulator to ensure that no problems are uncovered.
Meet with specific managers to protect proprietary information.
1

3
The IAA must evaluate, among other things, operational risk exposures and related controls regarding compliance with laws, regulations, policies, procedures, and contracts (Standards 2120.A I and 2130.Al ). Thus, the CAE has an interest in gathering information for compliance audits and in determining whether the organizational response has been appropriate. Moreover, cooperation is part of an appropriate response.The CAE should not attempt to mislead or influence the regulator in any way. To make the process easier for all parties involved, however, the CAE may provide any relevant information before the inspection. Afterwards, the CAE may confer with the regulator to discuss compliance issues.
The CAE is not qualified to dispute regulatory findings.
The CAE should not be present during the process.
Meeting with managers or other organization personnel to mislead the regulator is most likely illegal.
198
Using the internal audit department to coordinate regulatory examiners&quot; efforts is beneficial to
the organization because internal auditors can

Influence the regulatory examiners' interpretation of law to match corporate practice.
Recommend changes in scope to limit bias by the regulatory examiners.
Perform fieldwork for the regulatory examiners and thus reduce the amount of time regulatory examiners are on-site.
Supply evidence of adequate compliance testing through internal audit workpapers and reports.
4

3
Internal auditors should not attempt to influence regulators' interpretations of law. 
Internal auditors should not attempt to influence the scope of work of the regulatory examiners. This action is a violation of The IIA Code of Ethics.
The regulatory examiners should perform their own work. Performing work for the regulatory examiners to reduce the amount of time they are on-site could be construed as suspicious behavior on the part of the internal audit department.
 Internal auditors assess compliance in specific areas as part of their role in organizational governance. They also conduct follow-up and report on management's response to regulatory body reviews. Because of these duties, internal auditors have immediate access to working papers and reports, which can supply evidence of compliance testing to external parties.
199
If the annual audit plan does not allow for adequate review of compliance with all material
regulations affecting the company, the internal audit activity should

Ensure that the board of directors and senior management are aware of the limitation.
Include a memo with the audit planning file listing the reasons for the lack of coverage.
Document that regulations not included will be reviewed in the subsequent year.
Decrease the scope of operational and financial audits to make additional audit time available.
1

3
The internal audit activity evaluates and contributes to the improvement of risk management, control, and governance processes by using a systematic and defined approach (Standard 21 OO). Thus, they should assess compliance in specific areas as part of their role in organizational governance. If the annual audit plan does not allow for adequate review of compliance, senior management and the board of directors should be informed of the implications of gaps in audit coverage, including the review of compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
The knowledge of incomplete audit coverage should not be limited to the internal audit activity.
Compliance with material regulations may need to be reviewed at least on an annual basis.
Audit coverage in other areas should not be automatically reduced. The internal audit activity may require additional resources to provide adequate coverage of risks.
200
Which of the following is most likely to be an element of an effective regulatory compliance
program?

The internal audit activity should be assigned overall responsibility for overseeing the program.
The program is communicated to employees in a video format on a one-time basis.
The organization should use monitoring and auditing systems reasonably designed to detect criminal conduct.
The organization should obtain as much information as possible when performing background checks on employees.
3

3
Specific individual(s) within high-level personnel of the organization should be assigned overall responsibility to oversee regulatory compliance with standards and procedures. High-level personnel of the organization means individuals who have substantial control of the organization or who have a substantial role in the making of policy within the organization.
The effectiveness of a compliance program will depend upon the ways in which it is communicated to employees. Generally, an interactive format works better than a lecture. Programs communicated in person tend to work better than programs communicated entirely through video or game formats. Programs that are periodically repeated work better than one-time presentations.
Monitoring and auditing systems for detecting illegal or unethical behavior and employee hotline reporting systems should be used. The best prevention is to coordinate multiple monitoring and auditing systems as opposed to relying on one system or on an independently functioning system(s).
The organization should use due care not to delegate substantial discretionary authority to individuals the organization knows, or should know through the exercise of due diligence, have a propensity to engage in illegal activities. However, care should be taken to ensure that the organization does not infringe upon employees' and applicants' privacy rights under applicable laws.
201
In some countries, governmental units have established audit standards. For example, in the
United States, the Government Accountability Office has developed standards for the conduct
of governmental audits, particularly those that relate to compliance with government grants. Iri
performing governmental grant compliance audits, the auditor should

Be guided only by the governmental standards.
Be guided only by The IIA Standards because they are more encompassing.
Be guided by the more general standards that have been issued by the public accounting profession.
Follow both The IIA Standards and any additional governmental standards.
4

3
The internal auditor should follow both The IIA Standards and governmental standards. 
The internal auditor should follow both The IIA Standards and governmental standards.
The internal auditor should follow both The IIA Standards and governmental standards.
Rule of Conduct 4.2 of The IIA Code of Ethics requires internal auditors to follow the Standards. Furthermore, an internal auditor is legally obligated to adhere to governmental standards when performing governmental grant compliance audits.
202
Senior management has requested a compliance audit of the organization&quot;s employee benefits
package. Which of the following is considered the primary engagement objective by both the
chief audit executive and senior management?

The level of organizational contributions is adequate to meet the program's demands.
Individual programs are operating in accordance with contractual requirements and government regulations.
Participation levels support continuation of individual programs.
Benefit payments, when appropriate, are accurate and timely.
2

3
Contributions concern specific engagement objectives that support the primary objective of compliance with laws, regulations, and contracts.
The IAA evaluates risk exposures related to governance, operations, and information systems regarding, among other things, compliance with laws, regulations, and contracts (Standard 21 I O.A2). Based on the risk assessment, the IAA evaluates the adequacy and effectiveness of controls encompassing governance, operations, and information systems. This evaluation should include, among other things, compliance with laws, regulations, and contracts (Standard 21 20.A I ). Operation in accordance with contracts and regulations takes precedence over all other objectives because it relates to the most basic aspects of the programs.
Participation levels concern specific engagement objectives that support the primary objective of compliance with laws, regulations, and contracts.
Benefit payments concern specific engagement objectives that support the primary objective of compliance with laws, regulations, and contracts.
203
In the risk management process, management&quot;s view of the internal audit activity&quot;s role is
likely to be determined by all of the following factors except

Organizational culture.
Preferences of the independent auditor.
Ability of the internal audit staff.
Local conditions and customs of the country.
2

3
Organizational culture is a factor that influences management's view of the role of internal auditing.
It is the role of senior management and the board to determine the role of internal auditing in the risk management process. Management's view of that role is likely to be determined by factors such as the culture of the organization, ability of the internal audit staff, and local conditions and customs (PA 2120- I).
The ability of the internal audit staff is a factor that influences management's view of the role of internal auditing.
Local conditions and customs of the country influence management's view of the role of internal auditing.
204
Which of the following threatens the independence of an internal auditor who had participated
in the initial establishment of a risk management process?
Developing assessments and reports on the risk management process.
Managing the identified risks.
Evaluating the adequacy and effectiveness of management's risk processes.
Recommending controls to address the risks identified.
2

3
Developing assessments and reports on the organization's risk management processes is not only an internal audit role but normally also a high audit priority.
Ultimately, it is the role of senior management and the board to determine the role of internal auditing in the risk management process. Their view on internal auditing's role is likely to be determined by factors such as the culture of the organization, ability of the internal audit staff, and local conditions and customs of the country. However, taking on management's responsibility regarding the risk management process and the potential threat to the internal audit activity's independence requires a full discussion and board approval (PA 2120- I).
Internal auditors assist both management and the board by examining, evaluating, reporting, and recommending improvements on the adequacy and effectiveness of risk management processes.
Internal auditors may recommend controls.
205
The board&quot;s expectations of the internal audit activity regarding the risk management process is

Noted in the work programs for formal consulting engagements.
Included in the business continuity plan.
Codified in the charters of the internal audit activity and the board.
Reviewed by the internal auditors immediately following a disaster.
3

3
A work program is a listing of specific procedures.  
Business continuity planning is just one element of risk management.
The chief audit executive (CAE) obtains an understanding of management's and the board's expectations of the internal audit activity in the organization's risk management process. This understanding is codified in the charters the internal audit activity and the board (PA 2120- 1).
The IAA's role needs to be understood before a crisis.
206
Risk management processes most likely are not

Quantitative or subjective.
Embedded in business units or centralized.
Formalized even in small organizations.
Formal or informal.
3

3
Risk management processes may be quantitative or subjective. 
Risk management processes may be embedded in business units or centralized.
Risk management processes are designed based on the organization's culture, management style, and business objectives. Depending on the size and complexity of the organization's business activities, risk management processes may be formal or informal, quantitative or subjective, or embedded in the business units or centralized at a corporate level. For example, smaller, less complex organizations may use an informal risk committee (PA 2120- 1).
Risk management processes may be formal or informal.
207
In forming an opinion on the adequacy of risk management processes, an internal auditor might
consider
I. Interviewing line and senior management.
II.	. Reviewing previous risk evaluation reports.
III.	I. Reviewing corporate policies.
IV.	 Assessing the appropriateness of reporting lines for risk monitoring activities.

land III only.
II and IV only.
III only.
I, II, III, and IV.
4

3
The auditor also considers reviewing previous risk evaluation reports and assessing the appropriateness of reporting lines for risk monitoring activities.
The auditor also considers interviewing line and senior management and reviewing corporate policies.
 The auditor also considers interviewing line and senior management, reviewing previous risk evaluation reports, and assessing the appropriateness of reporting lines for risk monitoring activities.
Internal auditors need to obtain sufficient, appropriate evidence to determine that the key objectives of the risk management processes are being met. One engagement procedure is interviewing line and senior management to determine business unit objectives, related risks, and management's risk mitigation and control monitoring activities. Another procedure is reviewing previous risk evaluation reports by management, internal auditors, external auditors, and any other sources. A third procedure is reviewing corporate policies and minutes of board meetings. This procedure helps to determine the organization's business strategies, risk management philosophy and methodology, appetite for risk, and acceptance of risks. A fourth procedure is assessing the appropriateness of reporting lines for risk monitoring activities (PA 2120- I).
208
In enterprise-wide risk management (ERM), the internal audit activity&quot;s core assurance roles
include

 Coordinating ERM.
Evaluating the reporting of key risks.
Championing establishment of ERM.
Implementing risk responses.
2

3
Coordinating ERM is a legitimate consulting role. 
Core assurance roles include (I) giving assurance on risk management processes, (2) giving assurance that risks are correctly evaluated, (3) evaluating risk management processes, (4) evaluating the reporting of key risks, and (5) reviewing the management of key risks.
Championing establishment of ERM is a legitimate consulting role.
Implementing risk responses is a role the IAA should not undertake. It is a management function.
209
In enterprise-wide risk management (ERM), the role the internal audit activity is least likely to
undertake is 

Reviewing the management of key risks.
Facilitating the identification of risks.
Serving as chief risk officer (CRO).
Developing the risk management strategy.
3

3
Reviewing the management of key risks is a core assurance role of the IAA in ERM.
Facilitating the identification of risks is a legitimate consulting role of the IAA in ERM.
Roles the IAA should not undertake include (I) setting the risk appetite, (2) imposing risk management processes, (3) managing assurance on risks, (4) making decisions on risk responses, (5) implementing risk responses on management's behalf, and (6) serving as the CRO or otherwise being accountable for risk management.
Developing the risk management strategy for board approval is a legitimate consulting role of the IAA in ERM.
210
The role of internal auditing in enterprise-wide risk management (ERM) most likely includes

Providing consulting services when the organization's risk maturity is low.
Determining the risk appetite.
Operating the risk management framework.
Making decisions on risk responses.
1

3
The IAA may provide consulting services, depending on the availability of other resources and the organization's risk maturity (the extent to which a robust risk management approach has been applied). As risk maturity increases, or if the organization has a risk management function or specialist, the IAA's consulting role tends to diminish.  
Determining the risk appetite is a management and board function.
Operating the risk management framework is in practice a management function.
Making decisions on risk responses is a management function.
211
When internal auditors perform a consulting engagement, what is the best statement of their
responsibility regarding risk?

Be alert to the existence of significant risks.
Consider only the risk consistent with engagement objectives.
Address risk consistent with engagement objectives and be alert to certain other risks.
Assume responsibility for managing risks.
3

3
Internal auditors also must address risk consistent with engagement objectives.
Internal auditors also must be alert to the existence of other significant risks.
During consulting engagements, internal auditors must address risk consistent with the engagement's objectives and be alert to the existence of other significant risks (PA 21 20.C I ). Moreover, internal auditors must incorporate knowledge of risks gained from consulting engagements into their evaluation of the organization's risk management processes (PA 2120.C2).
A consulting engagement may involve assisting management with the establishment or improvement of risk management processes. In such an engagement, internal auditors must not assume any management responsibility by actually managing risks (PA 21 20.C3).
212
When assessing the risk associated with an activity, an internal auditor should

Determine how the risk should best be managed.
Provide assurance on the management of the risk.
Update the risk management process based on risk exposures.
Design controls to mitigate the identified risks.
2

3
Risk management is a key responsibility of senior management and the board (PA 2120- 1), not the internal auditor. 
The internal audit activity must evaluate and contribute to the improvement of governance, risk management, and control processes using a systematic and disciplined approach (Standard 2100). Assurance services involve the internal auditor's objective assessment of management's risk management activities and the degree to which they are effective.
Designing and updating the risk management process is a role of management.
Designing controls impairs the objectivity of an internal auditor (PA 1120-1).
213
Risk management is

A fundamental element of the definition of internal auditing.
An element of the control environment.
Unrelated to internal control.
Synonymous with governance.
1

3
Internal auditing is an independent, objective assurance and consulting activity designed to add value and improve an organization's operations. It helps an organization accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes (Definition of Internal Auditing). 
 The control environment includes the following elements: O Integrity and ethical values O Management's philosophy and operating style O Organizational structure O Assignment of authority and responsibility O Human resource policies and practices O Competence of personnel
Control is 'any action taken by management, the board, and other parties to manage risk and increase the likelihood that established objectives and goals will be achieved' (Glossary).
Governance is the 'combination of processes and structures implemented by the board in order to inform, direct, manage, and monitor the activities the organization toward the achievement of its objectives' (Glossary).
214
The primary reason that a bank would maintain a separate compliance function is to

Better manage perceived high risks.
Strengthen controls over the bank's investments.
Ensure the independence of line and senior management.
Better respond to shareholder expectations.
1

3
The risk management process identifies, assesses, manages, and controls potential risk exposures. Organizations such as brokers, banks, and insurance companies may view risks as sufficiently critical to warrant continuous oversight and monitoring.
A separate compliance function may help strengthen controls, but this is not its primary purpose.
Risk management is the direct responsibility of management.
A separate compliance function will help respond to shareholder needs, but this is not its primary purpose.
215
Which of the following is the most accurate term for a process to identify, assess, manage, and
control potential events or situations to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement
of the organization&quot;s objectives?

The internal audit activity.
Control process.
Risk management.
Consulting service.
3

3
The internal audit activity is 'a department, division, team of consultants, or other practitioner(s) that provides independent, objective assurance and consulting services designed to add value and improve an organization's operations. The internal audit activity helps an organization accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of governance, risk management, and control processes' (Glossary).  
Control processes are _the policies, procedures, and activities that are part of a control framework designed to ensure that risks are contained within the risk tolerances established by the risk management process' (Glossary).
Risk management is 'a process to identify, assess, manage, and control potential events or situations to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of the organization's objectives' (Glossary). Accordingly, the internal audit activity evaluates and contributes to the improvement of risk management, control, and governance processes using a systematic and disciplined approach.
Consulting services are 'advisory and related client service activities, the nature and scope of which are agreed with the client, and are intended to add value and improve an organization's governance, risk management, and control processes without the internal auditor' s assumption of management responsibility' (Glossary).
216
Which of the following represents the best statement of responsibilities for risk management?
		Management_                 Internal Auditing             Board								
		
 Responsibility for risk     Oversight role                Advisory role
Oversight role				Responsibility for risk        Advisory role  
Responsibility for risk     Advisory role                  Oversight role
oversight role				Advisory role			Responsibility for risk		
3

3
Internal auditors are generally involved in the assurance and advisory role. The board has an oversight role 
Management performs the implementation role in risk management, and the board has an oversight role. Internal auditors are generally involved in the assurance and advisory role.
Risk management is a key responsibility of management. To achieve its business objectives, management should ensure that sound risk management processes are in place and functioning. Boards have an oversight role to determine that appropriate risk management processes are in place and that these processes are adequate and effective. In this role, they may direct the internal auditors to assist them by examining, evaluating, reporting, and recommending improvements on the adequacy and effectiveness of risk management processes. Management and the board are responsible for their organization's risk management and control processes. However, internal auditors acting in a consulting role can assist the organization in identifying, evaluating, and implementing risk management methodologies and controls to address those risks (PA 2120- I).
Management is responsible for risk management, not the oversight role performed by the board.
217
Which of the following goals sets risk management strategies at the optimum level?

Minimize costs.
Maximize market share.
Minimize losses.
Maximize shareholder value.
4

3
 Minimizing costs is not a comprehensive approach.
Maximizing market share is not a comprehensive approach.
Minimizing losses is not a comprehensive approach.
The risk management processes chosen depend on the organization's culture, management style, and business objectives. These choices should optimize stakeholder (for example, shareholder) value by coping effectively with uncertainty, risks, and opportunities. Thus, maximizing shareholder value is a comprehensive approach that relates to risk management strategies across the enterprise.
218
An internal auditor plans to conduct an audit of the adequacy of controls over investments in
new financial instruments. Which of the following would not be required as part of such an
engagement?

Determine if policies exist which describe the risks the treasurer may take and the types of instruments in which the treasurer may make investments.
Determine the extent of management oversight over investments in sophisticated instruments.
Determine whether the treasurer is getting higher or lower rates of return on investments than are treasurers in comparable organizations.
Determine the nature of controls established by the treasurer to monitor the risks in the investments.
3

3
The first step of such an engagement should be to determine the nature of policies established to manage the risks associated with the investments. New financial instruments are very risky.
Oversight by a management committee is an important control. Thus, the auditor should determine the nature of the risk management process established to monitor and authorize such investments. The specific process used by an organization must fit that organization's culture, management style, and business objectives. For example, the organization's use of derivatives or other sophisticated products available in capital markets requires the use of quantitative risk management tools (PA 2120- 1).
For this particular engagement, the auditor does not need to develop a comparison of investment returns with those of other organizations. In fact, some financial investment scandals show that such comparisons can be highly misleading because high returns were due to taking on a high level of risk. Also, this determination does not test the adequacy of the controls.
A fundamental control concept over cash-like assets is the treasurer's establishment of a mechanism to monitor the risks.
219
When the executive management of an organization decided to form a team to investigate the
adoption of an activity-based costing (ABC) system, an internal auditor was assigned to the
team. The best reason for including an internal auditor is the internal auditor&quot;s knowledge of

Activities and cost drivers.
Information processing procedures.
Current product cost structures.
Risk management processes.
4

3
An engineer has more knowledge than an internal auditor about activities and cost drivers. 
An information systems expert has more knowledge than an internal auditor about information needs and information processing procedures.
A management accountant has more knowledge than an internal auditor about a company's current product cost.
The IAA's scope of work extends to evaluating the organization's risk management processes. The IAA should assist the organization by identifying and evaluating significant exposures to risk and contributing to the improvement of risk management and control systems
220
Risk management is the responsibility of management. The role of the internal audit activity in
the risk management process may include which of the following?
I. Monitoring activities.
II.	. Evaluating the risk management process as part of the engagement plan.
III.	I. Participating on oversight committees, monitoring of activities, and status reporting.
IV.	 Managing and coordinating the process.

I only.
II only.
I, II, and III only.
I, II, III, and IV.
4

3
The IAA's role in the risk management process may extend on a continuum from no role to managing and coordinating the process.
The IAA's role in the risk management process also may extend to monitoring activities; participating on oversight committees, monitoring of activities, and status reporting; and managing and coordinating the process.
The IAA's role in the risk management process also may extend to managing and coordinating the process.
The IAA must evaluate and contribute to the improvement of governance, risk management, and control processes using a systematic and disciplined approach (Standard 2100). The specific role of the IAA in the risk management process depends on management's and the board's expectations of the IAA. The IAA's understanding of these expectations should be codified in the charters of the IAA and the audit committee. Accordingly, this role may evolve over time and may include responsibilities along a continuum that extends from no role to (I) auditing the risk management process as part of the internal audit plan; (2) active, continuous support and involvement in the risk management process through participation on oversight committees, monitoring activities, and status reporting; and (3) managing and coordinating the process (PA 2120- I).
221
The internal audit activity must evaluate the effectiveness and contribute to the improvement of
risk management processes (Standard 2120). With respect to evaluating the adequacy of risk
management processes, internal auditors most likely should

Recognize that organizations should use similar techniques for managing risk.
Determine that the key objectives of risk management processes are being met.
Determine the level of risks acceptable to the organization.
Treat the evaluation of risk management processes in the same manner as the risk analysis used to plan engagements.
2

3
Risk management processes vary with the size and complexity of an organization's business activities.
The IAA may be charged with the responsibility for auditing the organization's risk management processes as part of the internal audit plan. This responsibility requires them to formulate an opinion on whether those processes are adequate. For this purpose, the IAA must obtain sufficient, appropriate information to determine that key objectives of risk management are being met (PA 2120- 1).
Management and the board determine the level of acceptable organizational risks.
Evaluating management's risk processes differs from the internal auditors' risk assessment used to plan an engagement, but information from a comprehensive risk management process is useful in such planning.
222
Internal auditors should review the means of physically safeguarding assets from losses arising
from	

Misapplication of accounting principles.
Procedures that are not cost justified.
Exposure to the elements.
Undemsage of physical facilities.
3

3
Misapplication of accounting principles relates to the reliability of information and not physical safeguards. 
Procedures that are not cost justified relate to efficiency, not effectiveness, of operations.
The IAA must evaluate risk exposures relating to governance, operations, and information systems regarding the safeguarding of assets (Standard 2120.Al). For example, internal auditors evaluate risk exposure arising from theft, fire, improper or illegal activities, and exposure to the elements.
Underusage of facilities relates to efficiency of operations.
223
Which of the following activities is outside the scope of internal auditing?

 Evaluating risk exposures regarding compliance with policies, procedures, and contracts.
Safeguarding of assets.
Evaluating risk exposures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
Ascertaining the extent to which management has established criteria to determine whether objectives have been accomplished.
2

3
Internal auditors must evaluate risk exposures relating to the organization's governance, operations, and information systems regarding the compliance with laws, regulations, policies, procedures, and contracts (Standard 2120.Al).
Safeguarding assets is an operational activity and is therefore beyond the scope of the IAA, which evaluates and contributes to the improvement of risk management, control, and governance processes. However, internal auditors must evaluate risk exposures relating to governance, operations, and information systems regarding the safeguarding of assets (Standard 2120.Al ). They also must evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of controls in responding to risks within the organization's governance, operations, and information systems. This evaluation extends to safeguarding of assets (Standard 2130.Al).
The IAA must evaluate risk exposures relating to the organization's governance, operations, and information systems regarding the (1) reliability and integrity of financial and operational information; (2) effectiveness and efficiency of operations and programs; (3) safeguarding of assets; and (4) compliance with laws, regulations, policies, procedures, and contracts (Standard 2120.Al ).
Ascertaining the extent to which management has established adequate criteria to determine whether objectives and goals have been accomplished is within the scope of internal auditing (Standard 2210.A3).
224
If an organization has no formal risk management processes (RMPs), the chief audit executive
should

Establish RMPs based on industry norms.
Formulate hypothetical results of possible consequences resulting from risks not being managed.
Inform regulators that the organization is guilty of an infraction.
Formally discuss with the directors their obligations for RMPs.
4

3
Internal auditors have no authority to establish RMPs. They must seek direction from management and the board as to their role in the process.
Internal auditors are not required to perform a risk analysis of the possible consequences of not establishing a risk management process. However, such a request might be made by management.
In the absence of a specific legal requirement, internal auditors are not required to report to outside parties.
If an organization does not have formal RMPs, the chief audit executive (CAE) formally discusses with management and the board their obligations with regard to RMPs. These include understanding, managing, and monitoring risks within the organization. They also include becoming satisfied that processes operating within the organization, even if informal, provide the appropriate level of insight into the key risks and how they are being managed and monitored.
225
The internal audit activity&quot; s role in the risk management process of an organization can change
over time and may be found at some point along a continuum. Appropriate roles include
I. Implementing risk responses
II.	. Providing assurance on the risk management process
III.	I. Coaching management in responding to risks
IV.	 Setting the risk appetite

 I only.
II only.
Hand III only.
I, II, III, IV only.
3

3
 Implementing risk responses is a prohibited role. 
Coaching management in responding to risks also is a permitted role.
The core assurance roles of the IAA involve providing assurance. They include (I) giving assurance on risk management processes, (2) giving assurance that risks are correctly evaluated, (3) evaluating risk management processes, (4) evaluating the reporting of key risks, and (5) reviewing the management of key risks. Certain internal audit roles also may be performed as consulting engagements if they do not involve managing risks. They include (I) facilitating identification and evaluation of risks, (2) coaching management in responding to risks, (3) coordinating ERM activities, (4) consolidating the reporting on risks, (5) maintaining and developing the ERM framework, (6) championing establishment of ERM, and (7) developing a risk management strategy for board approval (Position Paper, The Role of Internal Auditing in Enterprise- Wide Risk Management).
 Implementing risk responses and setting the risk appetite are prohibited roles.
226
When assessing risk management processes, internal auditors consider researching and
reviewing current developments, trends, and other appropriate sources of information to
determine
I. Risks that may affect the organization
II.	. Exposures that may affect the organization
III.	I. Related control procedures used to monitor risks

land II only.
II and III only.
III only.
I, II, and III.
4

3
The information also is used to determine the related control procedures used to address, monitor, and reassess risks.
The information also is used to determine risks that may affect the organization.
The information also is used to determine the risks and exposures that may affect the organization.
PA 2120- I states, 'Internal auditors need to obtain sufficient and appropriate evidence to determine that the key objectives of the risk management processes are being met to form an opinion on the adequacy of risk management processes.'  Thus, the internal auditor may consider researching and reviewing current developments, trends, industry information related to the business conducted by the organization, and other appropriate sources of information. One purpose is to determine risks and exposures that may affect the organization and related controls used to address, monitor, and reassess those risks.
227
Which of the following are features of risk/control assessment?

I. Identify business objectives
II.	. Review the likelihood and significance
III.	I. Identify control(s)
IV.	 Test effectiveness

 land II only.
II and III only.
III only.
I, II, III, and IV.
4

3
Identifying controls and testing their effectiveness also are features of risk/control assessment.
Identifying business objectives and testing the effectiveness of controls also are features of risk control assessment.
Identifying business objectives, reviewing the likelihood and significance of risks, and testing the effectiveness of controls also are features of risk control assessment.
Risk/control assessment has the following features/steps: I. Identify business objectives 2.	Identify risks to business objectives 3.	Rate each risk in terms of likelihood and significance 4.	Identify the controls 5.	Evaluate the adequacy of controls 6.	Test the effectiveness of controls 7.	Arrive at the final opinion on adequacy and effectiveness of controls
228
Quantitative risk management (RM) methods are most appropriate for

Assessing personnel risks.
Developing a risk matrix.
The use of derivatives by the organization.
Identifying risks from the COSO's enterprise risk 
3

3
Matters addressed in the control environment, e.g., integrity and ethical values, human resources, and organizational structure are subject to soft controls and soft RM approaches. 
 A risk matrix links identified risks to, for example, controls or business processes.
An organization designs RM processes based on its culture, management style, and business objectives. For example, the use of derivatives or other sophisticated capital market products may require the use of quantitative RM tools. But the internal auditor determines that the methods chosen are appropriate for the nature of the organization (PA 2120- 1).
An ERM framework contains broad statements of classes of risks. They are not stated in the detail (quantitative or not) required by a specific organization.
229
Which of the following statements on the real-world operation of a risk management
framework (RMF) is true?

In practice, the board operates the RMF.
In practice, management delegates the operation of the RMF to the board.
In practice, the board delegates the operation of the RMF to management.
The primary responsibility for identifying risks lies with the board.
3

3
In practice, the board delegates this responsibility.
The board delegates to management.
The board has overall responsibility for ensuring that risks are managed. In practice, the board delegates the operation of the RMF to management. Everyone in the organization plays a role in successful ERM, but the primary responsibility for identifying risks and managing them lies with management.
The primary responsibility for identifying risks and managing them lies with management.
230
Business continuity management provides for all but which of the following?

Segregation of duties.
Alternative work spaces.
Business impact analysis.
	Alternative sourcing.
1

3
As part of an entity's business recovery and continuity strategy, it plans for alternative staffing, sourcing, and work spaces as well as for the return to normal operations. Segregation of duties, however, is a category of controls. 
BCM provides for alternative work spaces.
BCM provides for business impact analysis.
BCM provides for alternative sourcing.
231
Which element of business continuity management requires definition of the recovery point
objective (RPO)?

Risk assessment and mitigation.
Business recovery and continuity strategy.
Management support.
Business impact analysis (BIA).
4

3
During the risk assessment and mitigation process, the entity (I) defines disruptive (credible) events, (2) assesses their effects, and (3) develops mitigation strategies.
As part of its business recovery and continuity strategy, the entity plans for (I) alternative staffing, sourcing, and work spaces and (2) the return to normal operations.
Management support is support for properly preparing, maintaining, and practicing a business continuity plan by assigning adequate resources, people, and funds.
BIA identifies processes integral to functioning in a disaster and determines how soon they should be recovered. Thus, the entity (I) identifies critical processes, (2) defines the recovery time objective (RTO) and the RPO for processes and resources, and (3) identifies the other parties and physical resources needed for recovery. The RTO is the duration of time and service level within which a process must be restored. The RPO is the amount of data the entity can afford to lose.
232
Which component of an emergency management program of a business normally has the
longest time frame?
A.	 
B.	
C.	
D.	

Emergency response.
Crisis management.
Continuity management.
Communications management.
3

3
The time frame of emergency response is measured in hours if not minutes. 
The time frame of crisis management is typically measured in hours or days.
The objective of BCM is to restore critical processes and to minimize the financial effects of a disaster or business disruption. Its time frame is measured in hours and days if not weeks.
Communicating with stakeholders (including the public) about a crisis and the steps for restoring business processes is the focus of crisis management.
233
With respect to business interruptions, what is the most crucial element of business recovery?

Information systems backup.
Alternative communication systems and site facilities.
Business impact assessments and resumption plans.
Disaster recovery plan.
4

3
Information systems backup should be included in the disaster recovery plan, which is the most crucial element of business recovery.
Alternative communication systems and site facilities should be included in the disaster recovery plan, which is the most crucial element of business recovery.
Business impact assessments and resumption plans should be included in the disaster recovery plan, which is the most crucial element of business recovery.
A crucial element of business recovery is the existence of a comprehensive and current disaster recovery plan. A comprehensive plan would provide for emergency response procedures, alternative communication systems and site facilities, information systems backup, disaster recovery, business impact assessments and resumption plans, procedures for restoring utility services, and maintenance procedures for ensuring the readiness of the organization in the event of an emergency or disaster.
234
The audit objective when auditing an organization&quot;s business continuity and disaster recovery
plan is to
I. Verify that the plan is adequate to ensure the timely resumption of operations and
processes after adverse circumstances.
II.	. Verify it is structured to incorporate important changes that could take place over time.
III.	I. Verify that it reflects the current business operating environment. 

land II.
land III.
II and III.
I, II, and III.
4

3
The audit objective when auditing an organization's disaster recovery and business continuity plan also includes verifying that the plan reflects the current business operating environment.
The audit objective when auditing an organization's disaster recovery and business continuity plan also includes verifying that it is structured to incorporate important changes that could take place over time.
The audit objective when auditing an organization's disaster recovery and business continuity plan also includes verifying that the plan is adequate to ensure the timely resumption of operations and processes after adverse circumstances.
Internal auditors should periodically audit the organization's business continuity and disaster recovery plan. The audit objective is to verify that the plan is adequate to ensure the timely resumption of operations and processes after adverse circumstances, and that it reflects the current business operating environment. Furthermore, the internal audit activity should examine the recovery plan to determine whether (I) it is structured to incorporate important changes that could take place over time, and (2) the revised plan will be communicated to the appropriate people inside and outside the organization.
235
Which element of business continuity management (BCM) involves identification of threats
and the determination of their impact?

 Business impact analysis (BIA).
Risk assessment and mitigation.
Business recovery and continuity strategy.
Awareness and training.
2

3
BIA (I) identifies the processes that are essential to business continuity during a disaster and (2) determines (a) a recovery time objective for a business process (length of time and service level for restoration) and (b) a recovery point objective for IT (data that can be lost in a disaster without unacceptable consequences). 
Risk assessment and mitigation identifies risks from such threats (disruptive events) as (I) natural disasters, (2) IT events (e.g., cyberterrorism, viruses, and denial''of-service attack), (3) supplier failures, (4) industrial events (e.g., fires and toxic waste spills), (5) labor disruptions, and (6) human failures (e.g., fraud, other criminal acts, and errors). BCM then assesses their probability and impact and develops mitigation strategies.
The business recovery and continuity strategy states in detail the procedures and resources needed for recovery.
 Awareness and training element addresses the preparation of the staff so that they will know their duties in the business continuity plan.
236
Which of the following is not one of the three components of an emergency management
program (EMP)? 

Business continuity management.
Crisis management.
Risk assessment and mitigation.
Emergency response.
3

3
Business continuity management is a component of EMP.
Crisis management is a component of EMP.
EMP consists of (I) business continuity management, (2) emergency response, and (3) crisis management. Risk assessment and mitigation is not one of the three components of EMP; it is a subelement of business continuity management.
Emergency response is a component of EMP.
237
Which element of business continuity management includes defining the recovery time
objective for processes and resources?	

 Management support.
Business impact analysis.
Business recovery and continuity strategy.
Risk assessment and mitigation.
2

3
Management support deals with making assignments to other elements that would then perform such tasks as defining the recovery time objective. 
Business impact analysis (BIA) identifies business processes that are integral to functioning in a disaster and determines how soon they should be recovered. During the analysis, the entity (I) identifies critical processes, (2) defines the recovery time objective and the recovery point objectives for process and resources, and (3) identifies the other parties and physical resources needed for recovery.
Business recovery and continuity strategy addresses the actual steps, people, and resources required to recover.
Risk assessment and mitigation identifies threats, and determines the probability of the threat and potential effects on the business.
238
Which of the following series identifies recovery solutions and sites for which a recovery plan
exists? 

Red, yellow, green.
High, medium, low.
Fast, moderate, slow.
	Hot, warm, cold.
4

3
 The correct series is hot, warm, cold.
The correct series is hot, warm, cold.
The correct series is hot, warm, cold.
The following are recovery solutions and sites for which a recovery plan exists: Hot: Resources are available at the site(s), and data are synchronized in real-time to permit recovery immediately or within hours. Warm: Resources are available at the site(s) but may need to be configured to support the production system. Some data may need to be restored. Typical recovery time is 2 days to 2 weeks. Cold: Site(s) have been identified with space and base infrastructure. Resources are not available at the sites(s). Data will likely need to be restored. Typical recovery time is 2 weeks to a month.
239
The engagement work most likely to yield relevant information for determining the adequacy
of an organization&quot;s &quot;disaster-recovery plan&quot; should focus on
A.	 
B.	
C.	
D.	

The completeness of the plan as to facilities, operations, communications, security, and data processing.
The sufficiency of the list of replacement equipment needed in event of a disaster.
Whether the plan is in the planning or developmental stage.
The role of the internal audit activity in developing and testing the plan.
1

3
A computer center should have a comprehensive (complete) reconstruction and recovery plan that will allow it to regenerate important programs and data files and continue operations in the event of disasters, equipment failures, or errors. The center should create backup (duplicate) copies of data files, databases, programs, and documentation, store backup copies off-site, and plan for auxiliary processing at another site. 
Consideration of the adequacy of the plan must extend to numerous other factors.
Consideration of the adequacy of the plan must extend to numerous other factors.
The involvement of the IAA does not assure adequacy.
240
In conducting an audit of an organization&quot;s disaster recovery capability, which of the following
would an auditor consider to be the most serious weakness?

Tests use recovery scripts.
Hot-site contracts are two years old.
Backup media are stored on-site.
Only a few systems are tested annually.
3

3
Use of scripts is a common practice to sequence the activities required for resumption of business.
Contracts for off-site facilities are not updated frequently.
A crucial element of business recovery is the existence of a comprehensive and current disaster recovery plan. A comprehensive plan would provide for emergency response procedures, alternative communication systems and site facilities, information systems backup, disaster recovery, business impact assessments and resumption plans, procedures for restoring utility services, and maintenance procedures for ensuring the readiness of the organization in the event of an emergency or disaster. Storing backup media on-site is a weakness in the plan. They should not be located where they can be affected by the same event that interrupted the system's activities.
Generally, the limited test-'time window will only permit testing a few systems.
241
The reliability and integrity of all critical information of an organization, regardless of the
media in which the information is stored, is the responsibility of

Shareholders.	 
IT department.
Management.
All employees.
3

3
Management has the ultimate responsibility for the reliability and integrity of all critical information. 
Management has the ultimate responsibility for the reliability and integrity of all critical information.
Internal auditors determine that senior management and the board have a clear understanding that information reliability and integrity is a management responsibility (PA 2130.A I -I). Information reliability and integrity includes accuracy, completeness, and security.
Management has the ultimate responsibility for the reliability and integrity of all critical information.
242
Who determines whether the internal audit activity has access to resources sufficient to evaluate
the reliability and integrity of information?

The chief executive officer. 
The chief audit executive.
The external auditor.
The chief operating officer.
2

3
The CAE must make a determination of whether the IAA has the resources to meet its obligations.  
The chief audit executive determines whether the IAA possesses, or has access to, competent audit resources to evaluate information reliability and integrity and associated risk exposures. These risk exposures may be internal or external, including those relating to the organization's relationships with outside entities (PA 2130.A I -I).
The CAE must make a determination of whether the IAA has the resources to meet its obligations.
The CAE must make a determination of whether the IAA has the resources to meet its obligations.
243
Which of the following is part of the board&quot;s role in protecting against privacy threats?

 Establishing a privacy framework.
Identifying the information gathered by the organization that is deemed personal or private.
Identifying the methods used to collect information.
Determining whether the use of the information collected is in accordance with its intended use and the laws.
1

3
The board is ultimately accountable for ensuring that the principal risks of the organization have been identified, and the appropriate control processes have been implemented to mitigate those risks. This includes establishing the necessary privacy  framework for the organization and monitoring its implementation (PA 2130.A I -2).
Identification of the information gathered by the organization that is deemed personal or private is a duty of the internal auditors.
Identification of the collection methods used is a duty of the internal auditors.
Determining whether the use of the information collected is in accordance with its intended use and the laws is a duty of the internal auditors.
244
Freedom from monitoring best defines
A.	 Personal privacy. 
Privacy of space.
Privacy of communication.
Privacy of information.
3

3
Personal privacy is physical and psychological. 
Privacy of space is freedom from surveillance.
Privacy may encompass (I) personal privacy (physical and psychological), (2) privacy of space (freedom from surveillance), (3) privacy of communication (freedom from monitoring), and (4) privacy of information (collection, use, and disclosure of personal information by others) (PA 2130.A I -2).
Privacy of information is freedom from collection, use, and disclosure of personal information by others.
245
When evaluating management of the organization&quot;s privacy framework, the internal auditor
considers

The applicable laws relating to privacy. 
Conferring with in-house legal counsel.
Conferring with information technology specialists.
All of the answers are correct.
4

3
The internal auditor also considers conferring with in-house counsel and information technology specialists. 
The internal auditor also considers the applicable laws, regulations, and policies relating to privacy and conferring with information technology specialists.
The internal auditor also considers the applicable laws, regulations, and policies relating to privacy and conferring with in-house legal counsel.
In an evaluation of the privacy framework, the internal auditor considers the following: O The various laws, regulations, and policies relating to privacy in the jurisdictions where the                          organization operates. O Conferring with in-house legal counsel to determine the exact nature of laws, regulations, and other standards and practices applicable to the organization and the countries where it operates. 0 Conferring with information technology specialists to determine that information security and data protection controls are in place and regularly reviewed and assessed for appropriateness. 0 The level or maturity of privacy practices (PA 2130.Al -2).
246
Which of the following statements is false with respect to information security?
Internal auditors should determine that management and the board, audit committee, or other governing body have a clear understanding that information security is the responsibility of the internal audit activity.
The chief audit executive should determine that the internal audit activity possesses, or has access to, competent auditing resources to evaluate information security and associated risk exposures.
Internal auditors should periodically assess the organization's information reliability and integrity practices and recommend, as appropriate, enhancements to, or implementation of, new controls and safeguards.
Internal auditors should assess the effectiveness of preventive, detective, and mitigative measures against past attacks, as deemed appropriate, and future attempts or incidents deemed likely to occur.
1

3
According to PA 2130.Al-I, internal auditors determine whether management and the board have a clear understanding that information reliability and integrity is a management responsibility. This responsibility includes all critical information of the organization, regardless of media in which the information is stored.  
This is a correct statement about information security according to PA 2130.Al-I.
This is a correct statement about information security according to PA 2130.Al-I.
This is a correct statement about information security according to PA 2130.Al-I.
247
Personal information may include I. Medical status
II.	. Social status
III.	I. Credit records
IV.	 Disciplinary actions	

 I, II, and IV only.
I only.
land II only.
I, II, III, and IV.
4

3
Credit records are considered personal information. 
Social status, credit records, and disciplinary actions are considered personal information.
Credit records and disciplinary actions are considered personal information.
 PA 2130.Al-2 gives the following examples of information that may be personal:  (I) medical status, (2) social status, (3) family relationships, (4) disciplinary actions, (5) name, (6) address, (7) identification numbers, (8) income, (9) financial status, (10) comments, (II) employee files, (12) evaluations, and (13) credit records.
248
The internal auditors&quot; ultimate responsibility for information security includes
Identifying technical aspects, risks, processes, and transactions to be examined. 
Determining the scope and degree of testing to achieve engagement objectives.
Periodically assessing information security practices.
Documenting engagement procedures.
3

3
An engagement work program is part of the planning process. It includes identifying technical aspects, risks, processes, and transactions to be examined. 
An engagement work program is part of the planning process. It includes determining the scope and degree of testing to achieve engagement objectives.
'Internal auditors periodically assess the organization's information reliability and integrity practices and recommend, as appropriate, enhancements to, or implementation of, new controls and safeguards. Such assessments can either be conducted as separate stand-alone engagements or integrated into other audits or engagements conducted as part of the internal audit plan' (PA 2130.Al- 1).
An engagement work program is part of the planning process. It includes documenting engagement procedures.
249
Which of the following privacy terms is matched with an accurate example of the term?
Privacy of space Freedom from surveillance 
Personal privacy Freedom from monitoring
Privacy of Freedom from communication surveillance 
Privacy of information Freedom from monitoring
1

3
Risks associated with the privacy of information encompass personal privacy (physical and psychological; privacy of space (freedom from surveillance); privacy of communication (freedom from monitoring); and privacy of information (collection, use, and disclosure of personal information by others). 
Personal privacy includes physical and psychological.
Privacy of communication includes freedom from monitoring.
Privacy of information includes collection, use, and disclosure of personal information by others.
250
Which of the following is not implied by the definition of control?
Measurement of progress toward goals.	 
Uncovering of deviations from plans.
Assignment of responsibility for deviations.
Indication of the need for corrective action.
3
Question Explanation
4
 Measurement of progress toward goals is implied by the definition of control.  
Uncovering of deviations from plans is implied by the definition of control.
The basic process of control for managers consists of establishing standards, measuring performance against standards, and correcting for deviations to ensure accomplishment of enterprise goals. Thus, assigning responsibility for deviations found is not a part of the controlling function.
Indication of the need for corrective action is implied by the definition of control.
251
Controls provide assurance to management that desired actions will be accomplished when
objectives are established in writing and

Standards are adopted, results are compared with the standards, and corrective actions are undertaken.
Are communicated to employees in writing and are updated by operating personnel as conditions change.
Policies and procedures for activities are set out in manuals for use by properly trained personnel.
Internal reviews as to the propriety and effectiveness of the objectives are undertaken on a periodic basis by the internal audit activity.
1
Question Explanation
4
The elements of control include (1) establishing standards for the operation to be controlled, (2) measuring performance against the standards, (3) examining and analyzing deviations, (4) taking corrective action, and (5) reappraising the standards based on experience. These elements of control provide reasonable assurance to management that established objectives and goals will be achieved. 
The only element of control stated is the establishment and communication of objectives.
 The essential elements of adoption of standards, comparison, and corrective action are omitted.
The essential elements of adoption of standards, comparison, and corrective action are omitted
252
An internal auditor is examining inventory control in a merchandising division with annual
sales of US $3,000,000 and a 40% gross profit rate. Tests show that 2% of the monetary
amount of purchases do not reach inventory because of breakage and employee theft. Adding
certain controls costing US $35,000 annually could reduce these losses to .5% of purchases.
Should the controls be recommended?

 Yes, because the projected saving exceeds the cost of the added controls.
No, because the cost of the added controls exceeds the projected savings.
Yes, because the ideal system of internal control is the most extensive one.
Yes, regardless of cost'benefit considerations, because the situation involves employee
2
Question Explanation
4
Cost exceeds the benefit.
Controls must be subject to the cost'benefit criterion. The annual cost of these inventory controls is US $35,000, but the cost savings is only US $27,000 {(2% - .5%) x [$3,000,000 sales x (1.0 - 0.4% gross profit rate)]}. Hence, the cost exceeds the benefit, and the controls should not be recommended.
The ideal system is subject to the cost'benefit criterion. The most extensive system of internal controls may not be cost effective.
Cost'benefit considerations apply even to employee theft.
253
Which of the following statements best describes the relationship between planning and
controlling?

Planning looks to the future; controlling is concerned with the past.
Planning and controlling are completely independent of each other.
Planning prevent problems; controlling is initiated by problems which have occurred.
Controlling cannot operate effectively without the tools provided by planning.
4
Question Explanation
4
A control system looks to the future when it provides for corrective action and review and revision of standards.
Planning and controlling overlap.
Comprehensive planning includes creation of controls.
Control is the process of making certain that plans are achieving the desired objectives. A control system operates through establishing standards of performance, measuring actual performance, analysis and comparison of performance with standards, taking corrective action, and reviewing and revising standards. Planning provides needed tools for the control process by establishing standards, e.g., budgets.
254
Which of the following best defines control?

Control is the result of proper planning, organizing, and directing by management.
Controls are statements of what the organization chooses to accomplish.
Control is provided when cost''effective measures are taken to restrict deviations to a tolerable level.
Control accomplishes objectives and goals in an accurate, timely, and economical fashion.
1
Question Explanation
4
According to the Glossary appended to the Standards, a control is 'any action taken by management, the board, and other parties to manage risk and increase the likelihood that established objectives and goals will be achieved. Management plans, organizes, and directs the performance of sufficient actions to provide reasonable assurance that objectives and goals will be achieved.'  Thus, control is the result of proper planning, organizing, and directing by management.
Established objectives and goals are what the organization chooses to accomplish.
The IAA evaluates the efficiency of controls (Standard 21 30), but the definition of control addresses effectiveness in achieving objectives and goals.
Efficient performance accomplishes objectives and goals in an accurate, timely, and economical fashion.
255
Internal auditors regularly evaluate controls. Which of the following best describes the concept
of control as recognized by internal auditors?

 Management regularly discharges personnel who do not perform up to expectations.
Management takes action to enhance the likelihood that established goals and objectives will be achieved.
Control represents specific procedures that accountants and internal auditors design to ensure the correctness of processing.
Control procedures should be designed from the 'bottom up' to ensure attention to detail.
2
Question Explanation
4
Termination of employees who perform unsatisfactorily is not a comprehensive definition of control.
According to the Glossary appended to the Standards, a control is 'any action taken by management, the board, and other parties to manage risk and increase the likelihood that established objectives and goals will be achieved. Management plans, organizes, and directs the performance of sufficient actions to provide reasonable assurance that objectives and goals will be achieved.'  Thus, control is the result of proper planning, organizing, and directing by management.
Control is not limited to processing. Moreover, it should be designed by management, the board, and others, not by internal auditors. The internal auditor's objectivity is impaired by designing such systems.
Some control procedures may be designed from the bottom up, but the concept of control flows from management and the board down through the organization.
256
When an organization has strong internal control, management can expect various benefits. The
benefit least likely to occur is

Reduced cost of an external audit.
Elimination of employee fraud.
Improvement in the reliability and integrity of information for decision-making purposes.
Some assurance of compliance with governmental regulations.
2
Question Explanation
4
Reduced cost of an external audit is a benefit of strong internal control. The cost of the external audit will be lower because of the reduction of the required effort related to substantive testing. Also, management will have better data for decision' making purposes and some assurance of compliance with laws, regulations, and contracts. 
Control is 'any action taken by management, the board, and other parties to manage risk and increase the likelihood that established objectives and goals will be achieved. Management plans, organizes, and directs the performance of sufficient actions to provide reasonable assurance that objectives and goals will be achieved' (Glossary appended to the Standards). Thus, the best internal control cannot guarantee the complete elimination of employee fraud. Effective internal control will reduce the amount of employee fraud and probably detect losses on a timely basis.
Improvement in the reliability and integrity of information for decision-making purposes is a benefit of strong internal control. The cost of the external audit will be lower because of the reduction of the required effort related to substantive testing. Also, management will have better data for decision-making purposes and some assurance of compliance with laws, regulations, and contracts.
Some assurance of compliance with governmental regulations is a benefit of strong internal control. The cost of the external audit will be lower because of the reduction of the required effort related to substantive testing. Also, management will have better data for decision-making purposes and some assurance of compliance with laws, regulations, and contracts.
257
Specific airline ticket information, including fare, class, purchase date, and lowest available
fare options, as prescribed in the organization&quot;s travel policy, is obtained and reported to
department management when employees purchase airline tickets from the organization&quot;s
authorized travel agency. Such a report provides information for

Quality of performance in relation to the organization's travel policy.
Identifying costs necessary to process employee business expense report data.
Departmental budget-to-actual comparisons.
Supporting employer's business expense deductions.
1
Question Explanation
4
Comparison of actual performance against a standard provides information for assessing quality of performance.
This ticket information is preliminary; employees may change tickets and routings prior to their trip.
Departmental budget-to-actual comparisons do not necessarily reflect the actual costs ultimately incurred.
Supporting expense deductions may not necessarily reflect actual costs.
258
Which of the following statements regarding effective control systems is false?
Excessive controls are costly in time and money. 
Outdated information is inappropriate.
Controls should measure the performance of all areas.
Controls should be simple.
3
Question Explanation
4
Effective controls should be economical because excessive controls are costly in time and money. 
Effective controls need to be timely because outdated information may be unreliable.
An effective control system should be meaningful. Thus, controls should be in place to measure performance only in important areas. Excessive controls in minor areas are not economical because the added benefits do not outweigh the loss of time and money.
Effective controls need to be simple enough so that users understand them.
259
Standards must

Fail to assist in implementing plans.
Not be applied at those points that significantly influence subsequent progress.
Be accepted by those who carry them out if they are to have maximum effectiveness.
Not be reviewed periodically for adjustment or elimination because of changed circumstances.
3
Question Explanation
4
Standards should assist in implementing plans.  
Standards should be applied at those points that significantly influence subsequent progress.
Standards must be accepted by those who will carry them out if they are to have maximum effectiveness. Subordinates should believe that standards are both fair and achievable. Participation in the standard-setting process will encourage acceptance of standards.
Standards should be reviewed periodically for adjustment or elimination because of changed circumstances.
260
Internal control can provide only reasonable assurance that the organization&quot;s objectives will be
met efficiently and effectively. One factor limiting the likelihood of achieving those objectives
is that

The internal auditor's primary responsibility is the detection of fraud.
The board is active and independent.
The cost of internal control should not exceed its benefits.
Management monitors performance.
3
Question Explanation
4
The internal audit activity' s responsibility regarding controls is to evaluate effectiveness and efficiency and to promote continuous improvement (Standard 2130).
An effective governance function strengthens the control environment.
A limiting factor is that the cost of internal control should not exceed its expected benefits. Thus, the potential loss associated with any exposure or risk is weighed against the cost to control it. Although the cost-benefit relationship is a primary criterion that should be considered in designing and implementing internal control, the precise measurement of costs and benefits usually is not possible.
Senior management's role is to oversee the establishment, administration, and assessment of the system of risk management and control processes. Among the responsibilities of the organization's line managers is the assessment of the control processes in their respective areas. Internal auditors provide varying degrees of assurance about the effectiveness of the risk management and control processes in select activities and functions of the organization (PA 2130- I).
261
The requirement that purchases be made from suppliers on an approved vendor list is an
example of a

Preventive control.
Detective control.
Corrective control.
Monitoring control.
1
Question Explanation
4
Preventive controls are actions taken prior to the occurrence of transactions with the intent of stopping events with negative effects from occurring. Use of an approved vendor list is a control to prevent the use of unacceptable suppliers. 
A detective control identifies errors after they have occurred.
Corrective controls correct the problems identified by detective controls.
Monitoring controls are designed to ensure the quality of the control system's performance over time.
262
Controls that are designed to provide management with assurance of the realization of specified
minimum gross margins on sales are
Directive controls.
Preventive controls.
Detective controls.
Output controls.
1
Question Explanation
4
A control is any action taken by management, the board, and other parties to manage risk and increase the likelihood that established objectives and goals will be achieved (Glossary). The objective of directive controls is to cause or encourage desirable events to occur, e.g., providing management with assurance of the realization of specified minimum gross margins on sales.
Preventive controls deter undesirable events from occurring.
Detective controls uncover and correct undesirable events that have occurred.
Output controls relate to the accuracy and reasonableness of information processed by a system, not to operating controls.
263
The procedure requiring preparation of a prelisting of incoming cash receipts, with copies of
the prelist going to the cashier and to accounting, is an example of which type of control?

Preventive.
Corrective.
Detective.
Directive.
2
Question Explanation
4
A prelisting of cash receipts in the form of checks is a preventive control. It is intended to deter undesirable events from occurring. Because irregularities involving cash are most likely before receipts are recorded, either remittance advices or a prelisting of checks should be prepared in the mailroom so as to establish recorded accountability for cash as soon as possible. A cash register tape is a form of prelisting for cash received over the counter. One copy of a prelisting will go to accounting for posting to the cash receipts journal, and another is sent to the cashier for reconciliation with checks and currency received. 
A corrective control remedies an error or irregularity.
A detective control uncovers an error or irregularity that has already occurred.
A directive control causes or encourages a desirable event.
264
Controls may be classified according to the function they are intended to perform, for example,
as detective, preventive, or directive. Which of the following is a directive control?

Monthly bank statement reconciliations.
Dual signatures on all disbursements over a specific amount.
Recording every transaction on the day it occurs.
Requiring all members of the internal audit activity to be CIAs.
4
Question Explanation
4
Monthly bank statement reconciliation is a detective control. The events audited have already occurred.
Requiring dual signatures on all disbursements over a specific amount is a preventive control. The control is designed to deter an undesirable event.
Recording every transaction on the day it occurs is a preventive control. The control is designed to deter an undesirable event.
Requiring all members of the internal audit activity to be CIAs is a directive control. The control is designed to cause or encourage a desirable event to occur. The requirement enhances the professionalism and level of expertise of the internal audit activity.
265
When a copy of the sale invoice is not received by an organization&quot;s shipping department, an
employee requests the document from the proper authority. This process is a(n)


Passive, mitigating control.
Active, detective control.
Detective, preventive control.
3
Question Explanation
4
. The control is detective, but it is not directive. A directive control causes or encourages a desirable event to occur. 
The control is neither passive nor mitigating. It is detected by the clerk in a conscious effort to maintain proper documentation. Moreover, a mitigating (compensating) control is used when other controls are not feasible, for example, supervisory review when segregation of duties is absent.
When shipping documents are not received in the shipping department (such as copies of the sales invoice, customer order form, and bill of lading), the clerk should attempt to obtain the proper documentation from the originating organization. This type of control is detective because it detects and attempts to correct an undesirable event that has occurred. It is also active because it takes a conscious intervention by the clerk to ensure the documentation is received.
The control is not preventive. It does not deter an undesirable event.
266
An organization&quot;s policies and procedures are part of its overall system of internal controls. The
control function performed by policies and procedures is 

 Feedforward control.
Implementation control.
Feedback control.
Application control.
1
Question Explanation
4
Feedforward control anticipates and prevents problems. Policies and procedures serve as feedforward controls because they provide guidance on how an activity should be performed to best ensure that an objective is achieved.
Implementation controls are applied during systems development.
Policies and procedures provide primary guidance before and during the performance of some task rather than give feedback on its accomplishment.
Application controls apply to specific applications, e.g., payroll or accounts payable.
267
Managerial control can be divided into feedforward, concurrent, and feedback controls. Which
of the following is an example of a feedback control?


 Quality control training.
Budgeting.
Forecasting inventory needs.
Variance analysis.
4
Question Explanation
4
 Quality control training is a feedforward or future-directed control. 
Budgeting is a feedforward or future-directed control.
Forecasting inventory needs is a feedforward or future-directed control.
A feedback control measures actual performance, something that has already occurred, to ensure that a desired future state is attained. It is used to evaluate past activity to improve future performance. A variance is a deviation from a standard. Hence, variance analysis is a feedback control.
268
The operations manager of a company notified the treasurer of that organization 60 days in
advance that a new, expensive piece of machinery was going to be purchased. This notification
allowed the treasurer to make an orderly liquidation of some of the company&quot;s investment
portfolio on favorable terms. What type of control was involved?

 Feedback.
Strategic.
Concurrent.
	Feedforward.
4
Question Explanation
4
Feedback controls apply to decision making based on evaluations of past performance. 
Strategic controls are broad-based and affect an organization over a long period. They apply to such long-'term variables as quality and R&D.
Concurrent controls adjust ongoing processes.
 Feedforward control provides for the active anticipation of problems so that they can be avoided or resolved in a timely manner. Another example the quality control inspection of raw materials and work-in-process to avoid defective finished goods.
269
As part of a total quality control program, a firm not only inspects finished goods but also
monitors product returns and customer complaints. Which type of control best describes these
efforts?

 Feedback control.
Feedforward control.
Production control.
Inventory control.
1
Question Explanation
4
A feedback control measures actual performance, something that has already occurred, to ensure that a desired future state is attained. It is used to evaluate the past to improve future performance. Inspecting finished goods, monitoring product returns, and evaluating complaints are post-action controls intended to eliminate deviations in future cycles of the process under control. 
Feedforward controls anticipate problems before they occur.
 Customer complaints are not part of production control.
The three types of control are feedforward, concurrent, and feedback.
270
The use of financial statement analysis, quality control procedures, and employee performance
evaluations are all examples of 

Preliminary controls.
Concurrent controls.
Feedback controls.
Feedforward controls.
3
Question Explanation
4
Feedforward (preliminary) controls anticipate and avoid future performance problems, e.g., budgeting.
Concurrent controls are applied midstream, e.g., inspection on an assembly line.
A feedback control operates to provide information about processes that have already occurred.
Feedforward (preliminary) controls anticipate and avoid future performance problems, e.g., budgeting.
271
The internal audit activity of an organization is an integral part of the organization&quot;s risk
management, control, and governance processes because it evaluates and contributes to the
improvement of those processes. Select the type of control provided when the IAA conducts a
systems development analysis.

 Feedback control.
Strategic plans.
Policies and procedures.
Feedforward control.
4
Question Explanation
4
A feedback control provides information on the results of a completed activity.
Strategic plans are developed by senior management to provide long- range guidance for the organization.
Policies and procedures are developed by management. They are the most basic control subsystem of an organization.
 A feedforward control provides information on potential problems so that corrective action can be taken in anticipation, rather than as a result, of a problem.
272
Which of the following is a feedback control?

Preventive maintenance.
Inspection of completed goods.
Close supervision of production-line workers.
Measuring performance against a standard.
2
Question Explanation
4
Preventive maintenance is a feedforward control. It attempts to anticipate and prevent problems.
Feedback controls obtain information about completed activities. They permit improvement in future performance by learning from past mistakes. Thus, corrective action occurs after the fact. Inspection of completed goods is an example of a feedback control.
The close supervision of production-line workers is a concurrent control. It adjusts an ongoing process.
Measuring performance against a standard is a general aspect of control.
273
Of the following, the controls that are often difficult for internal auditors to evaluate because of
the lack of criteria or standards are

Preventive controls.
Financial controls.
Corrective controls.
Operating controls.
4
Question Explanation
4
Preventive controls keep loss exposures from occurring. They include not only operating controls but also those for which quantifiable standards are readily determined. 
Financial controls, e.g., a budget, are subject to quantifiable standards that are relatively easy to measure.
Corrective controls are post''detection or remedial controls. They may include controls for which standards are easily defined, such as financial controls.
Operating controls are those used in the management processes of directing and controlling and are based on comparison of results with standards. As an activity becomes less mechanical, however, standards become more difficult to determine. Control standards for security, for example, are less easily developed than for the output per hour of a machine because the degree of security achieved is not readily measurable.
274
Which of the following operating controls relate to the organizing function?

Formal procedures for selecting potential suppliers.
Procedures providing for clear levels of purchase order approvals based on the value of the requisition.
Written objectives and goals for the department.
Timely materials reporting to buyers.
2
Question Explanation
4
Establishing procedures is a function of planning, which is the determination of how an individual activity is to be done.
Organizing is the intentional design and structuring of tasks and roles to accomplish organizational goals. An organizational arrangement whereby purchases of greater value require authorization at higher management levels is an example of an organizational control.
Establishing objectives and goals is also a planning function.
Provision of timely information is a control function.
275
A restaurant chain has over 680 restaurants. All food orders for each restaurant are required to
be entered into an electronic device that records all food orders by food servers and transmits
the order to the kitchen for preparation. All food servers are responsible for collecting cash for
all their orders and must tum in cash at the end of their shift equal to the sales value of food
ordered for their I.D. number. The manager then reconciles the cash received for the day with
the computerized record of food orders generated. All differences are investigated immediately
by the restaurant. Organizational headquarters has established monitoring controls to determine
when an individual restaurant might not be recording all its revenue and transmitting the
applicable cash to the corporate headquarters. Which one of the following is the best example
of a monitoring control?

 The restaurant manager reconciles the cash received with the food orders recorded on the computer.
All food orders must be entered on the computer, and segregation of duties is maintained between the food servers and the cooks.
Management prepares a detailed analysis of gross margin per store and investigates any store that shows a significantly lower gross margin.
Cash is transmitted to corporate headquarters on a daily basis.
3
Question Explanation
4
The manager's activity is an example of a reconciliation control applied at the store level. Monitoring is an overall control that determines whether other controls are operating effectively.
The division of duties is an operational control.
Monitoring is a process that assesses the quality of internal control over time. It involves assessment by appropriate personnel of the design and operation of controls and the taking of corrective action. Monitoring can be done through ongoing activities or separate evaluations. Ongoing monitoring procedures are built into the normal recurring activities of an entity and include regular management and supervisory activities. Thus, analysis of gross margin data and investigation of significant deviations is a monitoring process.
Daily transmission of cash is an operational control.
276
Management has a role in the maintenance of control. In fact, management sometimes is a
control. Which of the following most likely involves managerial functions as a control?

Monitoring performance.
Board approval of the charter of the internal audit activity.
Maintenance of a quality assurance program.
Establishment of an internal audit activity.
1
Question Explanation
4
Monitoring is a component of the control environment. It is a process that assesses the quality of the system's performance over time. It consists of ongoing activities built into normal operations to ensure that they continue to be performed effectively. Supervision and other ordinary management functions, consideration of communications with external parties, and the actions of internal and external auditors are examples.
The board is the entity' s governing body, not its management.
 A quality assurance program is a form of internal assessment. The manager of the program should be independent of the operations assessed.
An internal audit activity should be independent of the operations reviewed and is not a managerial function.
277
Which of the following is an operating control relating to management&quot;s directing function?

 Informing purchasing personnel of the future need for long''lead-time products in ample time.
Supplying buyers with timely, accurate, and useful reports on products received, accepted, or rejected.
Prescribing formal procedures for selecting potential suppliers.
Establishing measurable goals for the department.
1
Question Explanation
4
Directing is the process of motivating people in an organization to contribute effectively and efficiently to the achievement of the entity's objectives and goals. Of the controls listed, only the timely sharing of scheduling information with purchasing personnel fits this description.
Providing timely feedback relates to the control function, not the directing function.
Prescribing formal procedures for selecting potential suppliers is a part of the planning function, not the directing function.
 Establishing measurable goals for the department is a part of the planning function, not the directing function.
278
Internal auditors are operating in organizations in which management is in the process of
&quot;reengineering&quot; operations with strong emphasis on total quality management techniques. In
management&quot;s quest to gain efficiency in processing, many of the traditional control procedures
are being deleted from the organization&quot;s control system. As part of this change, management is

Placing more emphasis on monitoring control activities.
Making different assumptions about human performance and the nature of human motivation than was done under traditional control techniques.
Placing more emphasis on self-correcting control activities and process automation.
	All of the answers are correct.
4
Question Explanation
4
It is true that reengineering emphasizes monitoring.
It is true that reengineering emphasizes changed views of motivation.
It is true that reengineering emphasizes automation.
Reengineering entails process innovation and core process redesign. Instead of improving existing procedures, it finds new ways of doing things. Accordingly, reengineering techniques eliminate many traditional controls. They exploit modem technology to improve productivity and decrease the number of clerical workers. Thus, the emphasis is on developing controls that are automated and self-correcting and require minimal human intervention. The emphasis therefore shifts to monitoring the control system so that management can determine when an operation may be out of control and corrective action is needed. Most reengineering techniques also assume that humans will be motivated to work actively in improving operations when they are full participants in the process.
279
An internal auditor fails to discover an employee fraud during an assurance engagement. The
nondiscovery is most likely to suggest a violation of the Professional Practices Framework if it
was the result of a

 Failure to perform a detailed review of all transactions in the area.
Determination that any possible fraud in the area would not involve a material amount.
Determination that the cost of extending procedures in the area would exceed the potential benefits.
Presumption that the internal controls in the area were adequate and effective.
4
Question Explanation
4
Due professional care does not require detailed reviews of all transactions (PA 1220- I). 
The relative complexity, materiality, or significance of matters to which assurance procedures are applied should be considered. 
The internal auditor should consider the cost of assurance in relation to potential benefits.
The IAA evaluates the adequacy and effectiveness of controls (Standard 2130.A I ). Moreover, the IAA must assist the organization in maintaining effective controls by evaluating their effectiveness and efficiency and by promoting continuous improvement (Standard 21 30). Thus, an internal auditor must not simply assume that controls are adequate and effective.
280
The chief audit executive&quot;s responsibility for assessing and reporting on control processes
includes

Communicating to senior management and the board an annual judgment about internal control.
Overseeing the establishment of internal control processes.
Maintaining the organization' s governance processes.
Arriving at a single assessment based solely on the work of the internal audit activity.
1
Question Explanation
4
The CAE normally reports on control processes once a year to senior management and the board (PA 21 30-I).
Senior management is responsible for overseeing the establishment of internal control processes.
The board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the organization's governance processes.
The challenge for the internal audit activity is to evaluate the effectiveness of the organization's system of controls based on the aggregation of many individual assessments. Those assessments are largely gained from internal auditing engagements, management's self assessments, and external assurance providers' work.
281
Controls should be designed to ensure that

 Operations are performed efficiently.
Management's plans have not been circumvented by worker collusion.
The internal audit activity's guidance and oversight of management's performance is accomplished economically and efficiently.
Management's planning, organizing, and directing processes are properly evaluated.
1
Question Explanation
4
The purpose of control processes is to support people of the organization in the management of risks and the achievement of its established and communicated objectives. Control processes are expected to ensure operations are performed efficiently and achieve established results (PA 2130- 1).  
Collusion is an inherent limitation of internal control.  
The board provides oversight of risk management and control processes administered by management.
Controls are actions by management, the board, and others to manage risk and increase the likelihood that established goals and objectives will be achieved (Glossary). The IAA evaluates the effectiveness of control processes (PA 2130- 1). Thus, controls do not directly address management's planning, organizing, and directing processes. Internal auditors evaluate management processes to determine whether reasonable assurance exists that objectives and goals will be achieved.
282
You are an internal auditing supervisor who is reviewing the working papers of a staff internal
auditor&quot;s overall examination of the firm&quot;s sales function. The pages are not numbered or cross-
referenced. Furthermore, the working papers were dropped and reassembled at random before
they were brought to you. You decide to put the working papers in the proper order according
to the Standards. The first stage of this activity is to identify each page as a part of (A) the
preliminary survey, (B) the review of the adequacy of control processes, (C) the review for
effectiveness of control processes, or (D) the review of results. The first page the supervisor
selects documents a test of controls performed during the course of the engagement. This page
belongs with which activity?

 Preliminary survey.
Review for adequacy of control processes.
	Review for effectiveness of control processes.
Review of results.
3
Question Explanation
4
A test from a prior engagement might be reviewed in the preliminary survey as background material. A current test would not yet be performed. 
Adequacy is present if management has planned and designed in a manner that provides reasonable assurance that objectives and goals will be achieved efficiently and economically. Tests of controls are not performed in reviews for adequacy of the system.
Internal auditors are charged with evaluating the adequacy and effectiveness of controls in responding to risks within the organization's governance, operations, and information systems (Standards 2130.Al). Effectiveness is present if management directs processes so as to provide reasonable assurance that objectives and goals will be achieved (definition of control in the glossary).
 Tests of controls are not performed in a review of results. Internal auditors review operations and programs to ascertain the extent to which results are consistent with goals and objectives. The purpose is to determine whether they are being implemented or performed as intended (Standard 2130.A3).
283
If an engagement client&quot;s operating standards are vague and thus subject to interpretation, the
internal auditor must


Seek agreement with management as to the criteria to be used to measure operating performance.
Determine best practices in this area and use them as the standard.
Interpret the standards in their strictest sense because standards are otherwise only minimum measures of acceptance.
Omit any comments on standards and the engagement client's performance in relationship to those standards because such an analysis would be meaningless.
1
Question Explanation
4
Adequate criteria are needed to evaluate controls. Internal auditors must ascertain the extent to which management has established adequate criteria to determine whether objectives and goals have been accomplished. If adequate, internal auditors must use such criteria in their evaluation. If inadequate, internal auditors must work with management to develop appropriate evaluation criteria (Standard 2210.A3).
The internal auditor need not apply the principles of competitive benchmarking.
Circumstances will dictate the interpretation of vague operating standards.
The internal auditor must work with management to develop appropriate criteria.
284
The chief audit executive (CAE) of a mid-sized internal audit activity (IAA) was concerned that
management might outsource the internal auditing function. Thus, the CAE adopted a very
aggressive program to promote the IAA within the organization. The CAE planned to present
the results to senior management and the board and recommend modification of the IAA&quot;s
charter after using the new program. The following lists six actions the CAE took to promote a
positive image within the organization

I.Engagement assignments concentrated on efficiency. The engagements focused solely on
cost savings, and each engagement communication highlighted potential costs to be
saved. Negative observations were omitted. The focus on efficiency was new, but the
engagement clients seemed very happy.

2.Drafts of all engagement communications were carefully reviewed with the engagement
clients to get their input. Their comments were carefully considered when developing the
final engagement communication.

3.The information technology internal auditor participated as part of a development team to
review the control procedures to be incorporated into a major computer application under
development.

4.Given limited resources, the engagement manager performed a risk assessment to
establish engagement work schedule priorities. This was a marked departure from the
previous approach of ensuring that all operations are evaluated on at least a 3-year
interval.
5.

To save time, the CAE no longer required that a standard internal control questionnaire be
completed for each engagement.

6.When the internal auditors found that the engagement client had not developed specific
criteria or data to evaluate operations, the internal auditors were instructed to perform
research, develop specific criteria, review the criteria with the engagement client, and, if
acceptable, use them to evaluate the engagement client&quot;s operations. If the engagement
client disagreed with the criteria, a negotiation took place until acceptable criteria could
be agreed upon. The engagement communication commented on the engagement client&quot;s
operations in conjunction with the agreed-upon criteria.

Is Action 5 inappropriate?



Yes. Internal control should be evaluated on every engagement, but the internal control questionnaire is not the mandated approach to evaluate the controls. 
No. Internal auditors may omit necessary procedures if there is a time constraint. It is a matter of professional judgment.
Yes. Internal control should be evaluated on every engagement, and the internal control questionnaire is the most efficient method to do so.
 No. Internal auditors are not required to fill out internal control questionnaires on every engagement.
4
Question Explanation
4
Internal control evaluations are not required on every engagement. 
 Internal auditors cannot omit necessary procedures as a result of a time constraint.
Internal control evaluations are not required on every engagement.
The internal audit activity must assist the organization in maintaining effective controls by evaluating their effectiveness and efficiency and by promoting continuous improvement (Standard 21 30). However, internal auditors are not required to fill out standard internal control questionnaires. The information documented in questionnaires may be found in other working papers, such as flowcharts, checklists, and narratives.
285
An internal auditor&quot;s role with respect to operating objectives and goals includes	 

 Approving the operating objectives or goals to be met.
Determining that they conform with those of the organization.
Developing and implementing control procedures.
Accomplishing desired operating program results.
2
Question Explanation
4
Approving the operating objectives or goals to be met is an operational matters that is the responsibility of management.
Internal auditors should ascertain the extent to which operating and program goals and objectives have been established and conform to those of the organization (Standard 21 30.A2).
Developing and implementing control procedures is an operational matter that is the responsibility of management.
Accomplishing desired operating program results is an operational matter that is the responsibility of management.
286
Internal auditors need to consider control criteria. Which of the following actions may be
appropriate?
I. Determining whether goals and objectives conform with those of the organization.
II.	. Determining whether results are consistent with established goals and objectives.
III.	I. Working with management to develop appropriate criteria.

I only.
land II only.
I, II, and III.
	II only.
3
Question Explanation
4
The internal auditors may take any of the actions described in statements I, II, and III.  
The internal auditors may take any of the actions described in statements I, II, and III.
'Internal auditors should ascertain the extent to which operating and program goals and objectives have been established and conform to those of the organization' (Standard 2130.A2). Internal auditors also 'should review operations and programs to ascertain the extent to which results are consistent with established goals and objectives to determine whether operations and programs are being implemented or performed as intended' (Standard 2130.A3). Furthermore, 'Adequate criteria are needed to evaluate controls. Internal auditors must ascertain the extent to which management has established adequate criteria to determine whether objectives and goals have been accomplished. If adequate, internal auditors must use such criteria in their evaluation. If inadequate, internal auditors must work with management to develop appropriate evaluation criteria' (Standard 221 0.A3).
The internal auditors may take any of the actions described in statements I, II, and III.
287
In evaluating the effectiveness and efficiency with which resources are employed, an internal
auditor is responsible for

 Determining the extent to which adequate operating criteria have been established.
	Verifying the existence of assets.
Reviewing the reliability of operating information.
Verifying the accuracy of asset valuation.
1
Question Explanation
4
The internal audit activity must evaluate control in responding to risks within governance, operations, and information systems. This evaluation includes the effectiveness and efficiency of operations and programs (Standard 2130.A I ). Moreover, the internal auditors must 'ascertain the extent to which management has established adequate criteria to determine whether objectives and goals have been accomplished' (Standard 221 0.A3).
Verifying existence relates to the safeguarding of assets.
The reliability of operating information concerns the reliability and integrity of information.
Verifying the accuracy of asset valuation concerns the reliability and integrity of information.
288
All of the following are acceptable criteria on which an internal audit may be based except

Policies and procedures.
Standards or guidelines.
Control frameworks.
Management cooperation with audit activities.
4
Question Explanation
4
Policies and procedures are standards, measures, or expectations that may be used to make an evaluation. The internal auditor may evaluate the conditions and determine that the organization or process is in compliance with the policies and procedures. 
 Standards or guidelines are standards, measures, or expectations that may be used to make an evaluation. The auditor may determine that the process being audited in is compliance with the standards or guidelines.
The auditor decides whether the controls implemented are adequate and effective. A control framework is useful in such an evaluation.
 'Adequate criteria are needed to evaluate controls. Internal auditors must ascertain the extent to which management has established adequate criteria to determine whether objectives and goals have been accomplished. If adequate, internal auditors must use such criteria in their evaluation. If inadequate, internal auditors must work with management to develop appropriate evaluation criteria' (Standard 221 O.A3). Management cooperation with audit activities is not a measure or expectation, but rather is a condition. A condition is the factual evidence that the internal auditor found in the course of the examination.
289
The chief audit executive (CAE) of a mid-sized internal audit activity (IAA) was concerned that
management might outsource the internal auditing function. Thus, the CAE adopted a very
aggressive program to promote the IAA within the organization. The CAE planned to present
the results to senior management and the board and recommend modification of the IAA&quot;s
charter after using the new program. The following lists six actions the CAE took to promote a
positive image within the organization:

I.Engagement assignments concentrated on efficiency. The engagements focused solely on
cost savings, and each engagement communication highlighted potential costs to be
saved. Negative observations were omitted. The focus on efficiency was new, but the
engagement clients seemed very happy.

2.Drafts of all engagement communications were carefully reviewed with the engagement
clients to get their input. Their comments were carefully considered when developing the
final engagement communication.

3.The information technology internal auditor participated as part of a development team to
review the control procedures to be incorporated into a major computer application under
development.

4.Given limited resources, the engagement manager performed a risk assessment to
establish engagement work schedule priorities. This was a marked departure from the
previous approach of ensuring that all operations are evaluated on at least a 3-year
interval.

5.
To save time, the CAE no longer required that a standard internal control questionnaire be
completed for each engagement.

6.When the internal auditors found that the engagement client had not developed specific
criteria or data to evaluate operations, the internal auditors were instructed to perform
research, develop specific criteria, review the criteria with the engagement client, and, if
acceptable, use them to evaluate the engagement client&quot;s operations. If the engagement
client disagreed with the criteria, a negotiation took place until acceptable criteria could
be agreed upon. The engagement communication commented on the engagement client&quot;s
operations in conjunction with the agreed-upon criteria.

Regarding Action 6, which of the following elements of the action most likely would have
rendered it inappropriate if omitted?


Seek agreement with the client about the criteria.
Developing a set of criteria to present to the engagement client as a basis for evaluating the engagement client's operations.
Commenting on the agreed-upon criteria.
All of the answers are correct.
1
Question Explanation
4
If the criteria established by management to determine whether objectives and goals have been accomplished are inadequate, the internal auditors must work with management to develop appropriate evaluation criteria (Standard 221 0.A3). 
Internal auditors may be required to interpret or select operating standards and then to seek agreement with engagement clients as to the criteria needed to measure operating performance.
The engagement final communication should include observations and recommendations with the following attributes:  criteria, condition, cause, and effect. Criteria are the standards, measures, or expectations used in making an evaluation or expectation. The effect is the impact of the difference between the criteria (what should exist) and the condition (what does exist).
 Two of the responses are incorrect.
290
Developing engagement observations, conclusions, and recommendations involves comparing
the condition with the relevant standard or criterion. Which of the following choices best
represents an appropriate standard or criterion to support engagement observations,
conclusions, and recommendations?

A quality standard operating procedure (number and date) for the department.
An internal accounting control principle, cited and copied from a public accounting reference.
	A sound industry practice, based on the internal auditor's knowledge and experience obtained during many engagement assignments within the organization.
All of the answers represent an appropriate standard or criterion to support engagement observations, conclusions, and recommendations.
4
Question Explanation
4
Standard operating procedures are a source of potentially valid criteria.
Professional standards are a source of potentially valid criteria.
Sound business practices are a source of potentially valid criteria.
Management is responsible for establishing adequate criteria to determine whether objectives and goals have been accomplished. Internal auditors must ascertain the extent to which criteria have been established. If they are adequate, internal auditors must use such criteria in their evaluation. If the criteria are inadequate, internal auditors must work with management to develop appropriate evaluation criteria (Standard 221 O.A3). Moreover, internal auditors may recommend standards of control for systems without impairing their objectivity. Acceptable industry standards, standards developed by professions or associations, standards in law and government regulations, and other sound business practices are usually deemed to be appropriate criteria.
291
Which statement most accurately describes how criteria are established for use by internal
auditors in determining whether goals and objectives have been accomplished?

 Management is responsible for establishing the criteria.
Internal auditors should use professional standards or government regulations to establish the criteria.
The industry in which a company operates establishes criteria for each member company through benchmarks and best practices for that industry.
Appropriate accounting or auditing standards, including international standards, should be used as the criteria.
1
Question Explanation
4
Internal auditors must ascertain the extent to which criteria have been established. If they are adequate, internal auditors must use such criteria in their evaluation. If the criteria are inadequate, internal auditors must work with management to develop appropriate evaluation criteria (Standard 221 O.A3). Thus, management is always responsible for establishing the criteria.
If management has not established the criteria or if the established criteria are inadequate, the auditor should work with management to develop appropriate evaluation criteria.
Benchmarks and best industry practices are sources of information that will assist management in establishing objective, relevant, and meaningful criteria.
Accounting or auditing standards are not appropriate for this purpose.
292
Before an assurance engagement can be performed, the auditor must identify appropriate
criteria. The sources of such criteria are least likely to include	

Benchmarks for the leading firms in the industry.
Best practices for another industry.
Historical cost information for the processes examined.
Government regulations for the industry.
2
Question Explanation
4
Benchmarks for the leading firms in the industry are more likely to provide adequate criteria than those for firms in an unrelated industry..  
Internal auditors must ascertain the extent to which management has established adequate criteria to determine whether objectives have been accomplished. If these criteria are inadequate, the auditor must work with management to develop appropriate criteria (Standard 22 l0.A3). Some sources of criteria for an assurance engagement are (I) government mies and regulations, (2) guidance from trade groups, (3) standards issued by professional nongovernmental bodies, (4) professional literature, (5) historical experience of the organization, or (6) the results of benchmarking (e.g., best practices of the strongest competitors). However, best practices for an unrelated industry are unlikely to be helpful unless some processes are similar.
Historical cost information for the processes examined is clearly relevant if they have not changed materially.
Government regulations for the industry must be followed.
293
Which of the following is a consulting standard for control?

Evaluation of adequacy and effectiveness of controls in responding to risks.
Incorporation of knowledge of controls gained from engagements into evaluation of control processes.
Ascertain the extent to which operating a program goals and objectives have been established
Review of operations to ascertain the extent to which results are consistent with established goals.
2
Question Explanation
4
The internal audit activity must evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of controls in responding to risks within the organization's governance, operations, and information systems' (Standard 2130.A I ).
 Standard 2130 states, 'The internal audit activity must assist the organization in maintaining effective controls by evaluating their effectiveness and efficiency and by promoting continuous improvement'  The related consulting Standard 2130.C2 states, 'Internal auditors must incorporate knowledge of controls gained from consulting engagements into evaluation of the organization's control processes.'  The other three answer choices are related assurance standards.
'Internal auditors should ascertain the extent to which operating and program goals and objectives have been established and conform to those of the organization' (Standard 2130.A2).
'Internal auditors should review operations and programs to ascertain the extent to which results are consistent with established goals and objectives and to determine whether operations and programs are being implemented or performed as intended' (Standard 21 30.A3).
294
Which of the following control and monitoring functions should have their planned activities
considered in developing engagement work schedules?

 Legal and purchasing.
Security and maintenance.
Production scheduling and environmental.
Compliance and business continuity.
4
Question Explanation
4
Purchasing is not a control function.
 Maintenance is not a control function.
 Production scheduling is not a control function.
Compliance and business continuity are control functions. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is one of the objectives of internal control described by the COSO framework. Business continuity is the control area concerned with assuring that critical entity functions continue to be performed during period when IT processing or other major facilities are unavailable.
295
Which of the following are elements included in the control environment described in the
COSO internal control framework?

 Organizational structure, management philosophy, and planning.
Integrity and ethical values, assignment of authority, and human resource policies.
Competence of personnel, backup facilities, laws, and regulations.
Risk assessment, assignment of responsibility, and human resource practices.
2
Question Explanation
4
Planning is not an element of the control environment. 
According to the Glossary appended to the Standards, the control environment includes the attitude and actions of the board and management regarding the significance of control within the organization. The control environment provides the discipline and structure for the achievement of the primary objectives of the system of internal control. According to the COSO internal control framework, the control environment includes the following elements: O Integrity and ethical values O Commitment to competence O Board of directors or audit committee O Management's philosophy and operating style O Organizational structure O Assignment of authority and responsibility O Human resource policies and practices
Backup facilities, laws, and regulations are not elements of the control environment.
Risk assessment is part of planning the internal audit activity and specific engagements.
296
An adequate system of internal controls is most likely to detect a fraud perpetrated by a
 

Group of employees in collusion.
Single employee.
Group of managers in collusion
Single manager.
2
Question Explanation
4
A group has a better chance of successfully perpetrating a fraud than does an individual employee.
Segregation of duties and other control processes serve to prevent or detect a fraud committed by an employee acting alone. One employee may not have the ability to engage in wrongdoing or may be subject to detection by other employees in the course of performing their assigned duties. However, collusion may circumvent controls. For example, comparison of recorded accountability for assets with the assets known to be held may fail to detect fraud if persons having custody of assets collude with record keepers.
 Management can override controls.
Even a single manager may be able to override controls.
297
The COSO framework treats internal control as a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the achievement of objectives related to

Reliability of financial reporting. 
Effectiveness and efficiency of operations.
Compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
All of the answers are correct.
4
Question Explanation
4
 The effectiveness and efficiency of operations and compliance with applicable laws and regulations are also correct. 
The reliability of financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations are also correct.
Reliability of financial reporting and effectiveness and efficiency of operations area also correct.
The COSO framework treats internal control as a process designed to provide a reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of objectives related to reliability of financial reporting, effectiveness and efficiency of operations, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The reliability of financial reporting concerns published financial information. The effectiveness and efficiency of operations relates to achievement of performance and profit goals and the safeguarding of resources. A final related objective is the compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
298
Which of the following are elements of the control environment? 

 Integrity and ethical values.
Organizational structure.
Assignment of authority and responsibility.
All of the answers are correct.
4
Question Explanation
4
Organizational structure and assignment of authority and responsibility are also part of the control environment.
Integrity and ethical values and assignment of authority and responsibility are also part of the control environment.
Integrity and ethical values and organizational structure are also part of the control environment.
The elements of the control environment include integrity and ethical values, commitment to competence, board of directors or audit committee participation, philosophy and operating style of management, organizational structure, assignment of authority and responsibility, and human resource policies and practices.
299
Which of the following is not a component of the Coco model?

Commitment.
Capability.
Control environment.
Monitoring and learning
3
Question Explanation
4
mitment is a component of the CoCo model..  
Capability is a component of the CoCo model.
Control environment is not one of the four components of the CoCo model. The four components are commitment, capability, monitoring and learning, and purpose.
Monitoring and learning is a component of the CoCo model.
300
In regard to The IIA&quot;s E/ectronic Systems Assurance and Control study, which of the following
is not a business assurance objective?

Recordability.
Capability.
Protectability.
Functionality.
1
Question Explanation
4
Recordability is not a business assurance objective.
Capability is one of the five business assurance objectives.
Protectability is one of the five business assurance objectives.
Functionality is one of the five business assurance objectives.
301
Which of the following statements is correct regarding corporate compensation systems and
related bonuses?
I. A bonus system should be considered part of the control environment of an organization
and should be considered in formulating a report on internal control.
II.	. Compensation systems are not part of an organization&quot;s control system and should not be
reported as such.
III.	I. An audit of an organization&quot;s compensation system should be performed independently of
an            audit of the control system over other functions that impact corporate bonuses.

 lonly.
II only.
III only.
Hand III only.
1
Question Explanation
4
The control environment includes, among other things, the element of human resource policies and practices. Thus, hiring, orientation, training, evaluation, counseling, promotion, compensation, and remedial actions must be considered by management. 
Compensation systems are part of the organization's control systems.
Audits of the compensation systems can be combined with an audit of other functions that affect corporate bonuses.
Compensation systems are part of the organization's control systems, and they may be audited in combination with other functions that affect corporate bonuses.
302
The policies and procedures helping to ensure that management directives are executed and
actions are taken to address risks to achievement of objectives describes

Risk assessments.
Control environments.
Control activities.
Monitoring.
3
Question Explanation
4
Risk assessment identifies and analyzes external or internal risks to achievement of the objectives at the activity level as well as the entity level.
Control environments reflect the attitude and actions of the board and management regarding the significance of control within the organization.
Control activities are the policies and procedures helping to ensure that management directives are executed and actions are taken to address risks to achievement of objectives.
Monitoring is a process that assesses the quality of the system's performance over time.
303
An organization&quot;s directors, management, external auditors, and internal auditors all play
important roles in creating a proper control environment. Senior management is primarily
responsible for

 Establishing a proper organizational culture and specifying a system of internal control.
Designing and operating a control system that provides reasonable assurance that established objectives and goals will be achieved.
Ensuring that external and internal auditors adequately monitor the control environment.
Implementing and monitoring controls designed by the board of directors.
1
Question Explanation
4
Control is 'any action taken by management, the board, and other parties to manage risk and increase the likelihood that established objectives and goals will be achieved. Management plans, organizes, and directs the performance of sufficient actions to provide reasonable assurance that objectives and goals will be achieved' (Glossary appended to the Standards). Management also establishes and maintains an organizational culture, including an ethical climate that fosters control. 
Senior management is not likely to be involved in the detailed design and day-to''day operation of a control system.
Management administers risk and control processes. It cannot delegate this responsibility to the external auditors or to the IAA.
The board has oversight governance responsibilities but ordinarily does not become involved in the details of operations.
304
Which term best reflects the attitude and actions of the board and management regarding the
significance of control within the organization?

Risk assessment.
Control activities.
Control environment.
Monitoring.
3
Question Explanation
4
Risk assessment identifies and analyzes external or internal risks to achievement of the objectives at the activity level as well as the entity level.
Control activities are the policies and procedures helping to ensure that management directives are executed and actions are taken to address risks achievement of objectives.
A control environment reflects the attitude and actions of the board and management regarding the significance of control within the organization.
Monitoring is a process that assesses the quality of the system's performance over time.
305

Which of the following statements is not accurate with regard to soft controls?

 The COSO and Coco models emphasize soft controls.
The communication of ethical values and the fostering of mutual trust are soft controls in the Coco model.
Soft controls have become more necessary as technology advances have empowered employees.
Control self''assessment is not an approach to audit soft controls.
4
Question Explanation
4
The COSO and Coco models emphasize soft controls. 
The communication of ethical values and the fostering of mutual trust are soft controls in the Coco model.
Soft controls have become more necessary as technology advances have empowered employees.
One approach to auditing soft controls is control self''assessment, which is the involvement of management and staff in the assessment of internal controls within their work group.
306
Which of the following broad control objectives listed in The IIA&quot;s E/ectronic Systems
Assurance and Control differs from the objectives found in the COSO internal control
framework?

Effectiveness and efficiency.
Financial reporting.
Compliance.
Safeguarding of assets.
4
Question Explanation
4
Effectiveness and efficiency of operations is addressed in both models.
Financial reporting is addressed in both models.
Compliance with laws and regulations is addressed in both models.
Safeguarding of assets is not among the objectives of control found in the COSO internal control framework.
307
Which of the following is the common name for /nternal Control.&quot; Guidance for Directors on
the Combined Code?	

COSO.
CoBIT.
The Tumbull Report.
Coco.
3
Question Explanation
4
The COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission) issued /nterna/ Control - /ntegrated Framework. 
CoBIT (Control Objectives for Information and related Technology) is the integrated framework for information technology controls issued by the IT Governance Institute.
One of the three most recognized internal control frameworks is Interna/ Control.'  Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code. It is commonly known as the Tumbull Report and was issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
 Coco refers to Guidance on Control (original title:  Criteria of Control) issued by the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants.
308
Which of the following is a factor affecting risk?

 New personnel.
New or revamped information systems.
Rapid growth.
All of the answers are correct.
4
Question Explanation
4
New or revamped information systems and rapid growth are also factors affecting risk.
New personnel and rapid growth are also factors affecting risk.
 New personnel and new or revamped information systems are also           factors affecting risk.
New personnel, new or revamped information systems, and rapid growth are all factors that affect risk.
309
Enterprise risk management (ERM) helps management address all of the following except

 Risk response decisions.
Timely financial reporting.
Responses to opportunities.
Deployment of capital.
2
Question Explanation
4
 ERM helps management address risk response decisions. 
Timely financial reporting, while important, is not directly addressed by ERM.
ERM helps management formulate responses to opportunities.
ERM helps management address the deployment of capital
310
Enterprise risk management (ERM) allows management greater capabilities. Which of the
following is not a capability of ERM according to the COSO&quot;s framework?

Reduced operational surprises and losses.
Multiple and cross-enterprise risks.
Increased productivity.
	Consideration of risk appetite and strategy.
3
Question Explanation
4
 Reduction of operational surprises and losses is a capability of ERM.
Addressing multiple and cross-enterprise risks is a capability of ERM.
The following are the capabilities of ERM: 1.	Consideration of risk appetite and strategy 2.	Risk response decisions 3.	Reduction of operational surprises and losses 4.	Multiple and cross-enterprise risks 5.	Response to opportunities 6.	Deployment of capital Although increased productivity may result from ERM, it is not a direct capability of ERM.
Consideration of risk appetite and strategy is a capability of ERM.
311
Enterprise risk management (ERM) is not expected to provide reasonable assurance of
achieving which pair of objectives?	

Strategic and reporting.
Operations and reporting.
Strategic and operations.
Compliance and strategic.
3
Question Explanation
4
Reporting objectives are within the organization's control. Thus, ERM should provide reasonable assurance of achieving them. 
Reporting objectives are within the organization's control. Thus, ERM should provide reasonable assurance of achieving them.
Strategic and operations objectives are affected by external events that the organization may not control. Hence, ERM is expected to provide reasonable assurance only that management and the board receive timely information about whether those objectives are being achieved. It does not provide reasonable assurance that the objectives are being achieved.
Compliance objectives are within the organization's control. Thus, ERM should provide reasonable assurance of achieving them.
312
Management considers risk appetite for all of the following reasons except

 Evaluating strategic options.
Setting objectives.
Developing risk management techniques.
Increasing the net present value of investments.
4
Question Explanation
4
Management considers risk appetite when evaluating strategic options.
Management considers risk appetite when setting objectives.
 Management considers risk appetite when developing risk management techniques.
Risk appetite should be considered in I. Evaluating strategic options 2.	Setting related objectives 3.	Developing risk management techniques Increasing the net present value of investments is an operational objective. It would be determined after consideration of the entity' s risk appetite and other strategic factors.
313
Which of the following is a category of objectives of enterprise risk management (ERM)?



 Compliance.
Control expenses.
Planning.
Information and communication.
1
Question Explanation
4
 ERM has four categories of objectives: 1.	Strategic objectives align with and support the entity's mission. 2.	Operations objectives address effectiveness and efficiency. 3.	Reporting objectives concern reliability. 4.	Compliance objectives relate to adherence to laws and regulations. 
 Control of expenses is an operations objective of ERM.
Planning is not a category of objectives for ERM. It is a means achieving objectives.
Information and communication is a component of ERM.
314
Components of enterprise risk management (ERM) are integrated with the management
process. Which of the following correctly states four of the eight components of ERM
according to the COSO&quot;s framework?

Event identification, risk assessment, control activities, and objective setting.
Internal environment, risk responses, monitoring, and risk minimization.
External environment, information and communication, monitoring, and event identification.
Objective setting, response to opportunities, risk assessment, and control activities.
1
Question Explanation
4
vent identification, risk assessment, control activities, and objective setting are components of ERM. Event identification relates to internal and external events affecting the organization. It differentiates between opportunities and risks. Opportunities are referred to the strategy or objective-setting processes. Risk assessment considers likelihood and impact (see the definitions of risk in the Glossary) as a basis for risk management. The assessment considers the inherent risk and the residual risk. Control activities are policies and procedures to ensure the effectiveness of risk responses. Objective setting precedes event identification. ERM ensures that (1) a process is established and (2) objectives align with the mission and the risk appetite.  
Risk assessment, not minimization, is a component of ERM.
The internal, not external, environment is a component of ERM.
Response to opportunities is a capability of ERM.
315
Which of the following control models is fully incorporated into the broader integrated
framework of enterprise risk management (ERM)?

 Coco.
COSO.
E/ectronic Systems Assurance and Control.
COBIT.
2
Question Explanation
4
ERM extends the COSO, not the Coco, model.
The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission published Enterprise Risk Management - Integrated Framework. This document describes a model that incorporates the earlier COSO internal control framework while extending it to the broader area of enterprise risk management.
ERM extends the COSO, not the eSAC, model.
ERM extends the COSO, not the COBIT, model.
316

Limitations of enterprise risk management (ERM) may arise from


Faulty human judgment.
Cost-benefit considerations.
Collusion.
All of the answers are correct.
4
Question Explanation
4
Limitations of ERM can also arise from cost-benefit considerations and collusion 
Limitations of ERM can also arise from faulty human judgment and collusion.
Limitations of ERM can also arise from faulty human judgment and cost-benefit considerations.
Limitations of ERM arise from the possibility of (I) faulty human judgment, (2) cost-benefit considerations, (3) simple errors or mistakes, (4) collusion, and (5) management override of ERM decisions.
317
The function of the chief risk officer (CRO) is most effective when the CRO 

Manages risk as a member of senior management.
Shares the management of risk with line management.
Shares the management of risk with the chief audit executive.
Monitors risk as part of the enterprise risk management team.
4
Question Explanation
4
Senior management has an oversight role in risk management.
The risk knowledge at the line level is specific only to that area of the organization.
The CAE should not be accountable for a management function.
A CRO is a member of management assigned primary responsibility for enterprise risk management processes. The CRO is most effective when supported by a specific team with the necessary expertise and experience related to organization-wide risk.
318
Inherent risk is

A potential event that will adversely affect the organization.
Risk response risk.
The risk after management takes action to reduce the impact or likelihood of an adverse event.
The risk when management has not taken action to reduce the impact or likelihood of an adverse event.
4
Question Explanation
4
 A risk event is a potential event that will affect the entity adversely.
A risk response is an action taken to reduce the impact or likelihood of an adverse event, including a control activity. Risk response risk is a nonsense term.
The risk after management takes action to reduce the impact or likelihood of an adverse event, including control activities, in responding to a risk is residual risk.
Inherent risk is the risk when management has not taken action to reduce the impact or likelihood of an adverse event. Thus, it is risk in the absence of a risk response.
319
The internal auditors are assessing the risk of fraud involving senior management. An impact
factor is

 Nonretention of customers.
Inadequacy of internal controls.
Unusual transactions.
Potential override of internal controls.
1
Question Explanation
4
An impact factor is a potential result of an event. These events are usually identified through the risk assessment process. For example, the consequences of fraud may include direct financial loss and harm to its reputation, which in tum may lead to inability to attract skilled employees or customers.
Inadequacy of internal controls is a risk that normally is identified during risk assessment.
The existence of complex or unusual transactions is a risk that normally is identified during risk assessment.
Potential override of internal controls is a risk that normally is identified during risk assessment.
320
Which risk response reflects a change from acceptance to sharing?


An insurance policy on a manufacturing plant was not renewed.
Management purchased insurance on previously uninsured property.
Management sold a manufacturing plant.
After employees stole numerous inventory items, management implemented mandatory background checks on all employees.
2
Question Explanation
4
Not renewing insurance represents a change from risk sharing to risk acceptance.
The categories of risk responses under the COSO ERM model are avoidance, acceptance, reduction, and sharing. If management does not insure a building, the response is acceptance. Ordinarily, acceptance is based on a judgment that the cost of another response is excessive. However, once management purchases insurance, the risk is shared with an outside party.
Selling property avoids all the risks of ownership.
Management originally accepted the risk of employee theft by not implementing pre-hire investigation. Conducting background checks on all employees reduces the risk of theft.
321
Enterprise risk management 

 Guarantees achievement of organizational objectives.
	Requires establishment of risk and control activities by internal auditors.
Involves the identification of events with negative impacts on organizational objectives.
Includes selection of the best risk response for the organization.
3
Question Explanation
4
Risk management processes cannot guarantee achievement of objectives.
Involvement of internal auditors in establishing control activities impairs their independence and objectivity.
Enterprise risk management (ERM) is a process, effected by an entity's board of directors, management, and other personnel, applied in strategy setting and across the enterprise, designed to identify potential events that may affect the entity and manage risk to be within its risk appetite, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of entity objectives (COSO, Enterprise Risk Management-Integrated Framework). The emphasis is on (I) the objectives of a specific entity and (2) establishing a means for evaluating the effectiveness of ERM.
Enterprise risk management is concerned with selecting not the best risk response but the risk response that falls within the enterprise's risk tolerances and appetite.
322
Under the COSO&quot;s ERM framework, which of the following most accurately describes risk
management responsibilities?


 In practice, management has primary responsibility.
The internal audit activity has an oversight role.
The board provides assurance about the effectiveness of ERM.
The chief audit executive should serve as chief risk officer.
1
Question Explanation
4
 The board has overall responsibility. However, in practice, the board delegates responsibility for ERM to senior management, which ensures that sound processes are in place and functioning.
 The IAA provides objective assurance that (I) ERM processes are effective and (2) key risks are managed at an acceptable level.
The board has overall responsibility.
The CAE must not be the CRO because of the impairment of independence and objectivity.
323
Which of the following is closely related to traditional risk management instead of enterprise
risk management (ERM)?

Rapid response to opportunities.
Organization-level view of risk.
Emphasis on specific functions.
	Achieving financial goals.
3
Question Explanation
4
This is a characteristic of the ERM, which tries to offset potential risks with opportunities.
The ERM tries to view risk as it affects every level of an organization.
The enterprise risk management approach set forth by the committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) attempts to approach an organization as a whole instead of focusing on any specific area or risk.
Financial goals are an example of the methods an ERM will use to achieve objectives in one or more separate but overlapping categories.
324
Which of the following members of an organization has ultimate ownership responsibility of
the enterprise risk management, provides leadership and direction to senior managers, and
monitors the entity&quot;s overall risk activities in relation to its risk appetite? 

Chief risk officer.
	Chief executive officer.
Internal auditors.
Chief financial officer.
2
Question Explanation
4
The risk officer works in assigned areas of responsibility in a staff function. The work of a risk officer often extends beyond one specific area because the officer will have the necessary resources to work across many segments or divisions.
The chief executive officer (CEO) sets the tone at the top of the organization and has ultimate responsibility for ownership of the ERM. The CEO will influence the composition and conduct of the board, provide leadership and direction to senior managers, and monitor the entity's overall risk activities in relation to its risk appetite. If any problems arise with the organization' s risk appetite, the CEO will also take any measures to adjust the alignment to better suit the organization.
The internal auditors evaluate the ERM and may provide recommendations.
The CFO is subordinate to the CEO.
325
Many organizations use electronic funds transfer to pay their suppliers instead of issuing
checks. Regarding the risks associated with issuing checks, which of the following risk
management techniques does this represent?
	

 Controlling.
Accepting.
Transferring.
D.	Avoiding.
4
Question Explanation
4
Eliminating checks does not represent an ongoing control.  
Eliminating checks avoids instead of accepts the associated risk.
Risk is not transferred to anyone else. It is eliminated.
Risk responses may include avoidance, acceptance, sharing, and reduction. By eliminating checks, the organization avoids all risk associated with them.
326
An internal auditor noted that the accounts receivable department is separate from other
accounting activities. Credit is approved by a separate credit department. Control accounts and
subsidiary ledgers are balanced monthly. Similarly, accounts are aged monthly. The accounts
receivable manager writes off delinquent accounts after 1 year, or sooner if a bankruptcy or
other unusual circumstances are involved. Credit memoranda are prenumbered and must
correlate with receiving reports. Which of the following areas could be viewed as an internal
control weakness of the above organization?

Write-offs of delinquent accounts. 
Credit approvals.
Monthly aging of receivables.
Handling of credit memos.
1
Question Explanation
5
The accounts receivable manager has the ability to perpetrate irregularities because (s)he performs incompatible functions. Authorization and recording of transactions should be separate. Thus, someone outside the accounts receivable department should authorize write-offs. Answer (B) is incorrect.  Answer (C) is incorrect.  Answer (D) is incorrect.  
Credit approval is an authorization function that is properly segregated from the record keeping function.
Monthly aging is appropriate.
The procedures regarding credit memoranda are standard controls.
327
Checks from customers are received in the organization&quot;s mail room each day. What controls
should be in place to safeguard them?

Establishing a separate post office box for customer payments. 
Forwarding all checks to the cashier upon receipt.
Requiring a specific mail clerk to list and restrictively endorse each check.
Providing bonding protection for mail clerks.
3
Question Explanation
5
Requiring a specific mail clerk to list and restrictively endorse each check provides more protection than establishing a separate post office box for customer payments. 
The same person should not both receive and deposit checks.
An employee who does not have access to other records should open the mail and prepare a list of checks received. The check listing will later be reconciled with the daily bank deposit and entries to accounts receivable. A restrictive endorsement ('for deposit only') will put transferees on notice to act accordingly (that is, deposit the check in the organization's account).
Bonding insures against but does not directly prevent losses.
328
Which of the following activities performed by a payroll clerk is a control weakness rather than
a control strength?

Has custody of the check signature stamp machine. 
Prepares the payroll register.
Forwards the payroll register to the chief accountant for approval.
	Draws the paychecks on a separate payroll checking account.
1
Question Explanation
5
Payroll checks should be signed by the treasurer, i.e., by someone who is not involved in timekeeping, record keeping, or payroll preparation. The payroll clerk performs a record-keeping function.  
Preparing the payroll register is one of the record-keeping tasks of the payroll clerk.
The payroll register should be approved by an officer of the organization. This control is a strength.
Paychecks should be drawn on a separate payroll checking account. This control is a strength.
329
The internal auditor recognizes that certain limitations are inherent in any system of internal
controls. Which one of the following scenarios is the result of an inherent limitation of internal
control?	

 The comptroller both makes and records cash deposits.
A security guard allows one of the warehouse employees to remove assets from the premises without authorization.
The organization sells to customers on account, without credit approval.
An employee, who is unable to read, is assigned custody of the organization's computer tape library and run manuals that are used during the third shift.
2
Question Explanation
5
Segregating the functions of recording and asset custody is customary. That the comptroller both makes and records cash deposits is an avoidable control weakness. 
Inherent limitations in internal control arise from mistakes in judgment, misunderstandings of instructions, personnel carelessness, distraction, fatigue, collusion, perpetrations by management, changing conditions, and deterioration of degrees of compliance. Thus, a control (use of security guards) based on segregation of functions may be overcome by collusion among two or more employees.
Transactions can and should be authorized before execution. The security guard's failure to obtain authorization for removal of assets is an avoidable control weakness.
Assignment of an unqualified employee is an avoidable control weakness.
330
One payroll engagement objective is to determine whether segregation of duties is proper.
Which of the following activities is incompatible?

Hiring employees and authorizing changes in pay rates.
Preparing the payroll and filing payroll tax forms.
Signing and distributing payroll checks.
Preparing attendance data and preparing the payroll.
4
Question Explanation
5
Hiring employees and authorizing changes in pay rates are both personnel functions. 
Preparing the payroll and filing payroll tax forms are both functions of the payroll department.
Proper treasury functions include signing and distributing payroll checks.
Attendance data are accumulated by the timekeeping function. Preparing the payroll is a payroll department function. For control purposes, these two functions should be separated to avoid the perpetration and concealment of irregularities.
331
Which of the following observations made during the preliminary survey of a local department
store&quot;s disbursement cycle reflects a control strength?

Individual department managers use prenumbered forms to order merchandise from vendors.
The receiving department is given a copy of the purchase order complete with a description of goods, quantity ordered, and extended price for all merchandise ordered.
The treasurer's office prepares checks for suppliers based on vouchers prepared by the accounts payable department.
Individual department managers are responsible for the movement of merchandise from the receiving dock to storage or sales areas as appropriate.
3
Question Explanation
5
The managers should submit purchase requisitions to the purchasing department. The purchasing function should be separate from operations.
To encourage a fair count, the receiving department should receive a copy of the purchase order from which the quantity has been omitted.
Accounting for payables is a recording function. The matching of the supplier's invoice, the purchase order, and the receiving report (and usually the purchase requisition) should be the responsibility of the accounting department. These are the primary supporting documents for the payment voucher prepared by the accounts payable section that will be relied upon by the treasurer in making payment.
The receiving department should transfer goods directly to the storeroom to maintain security. A copy of the receiving report should be sent to the storeroom so that the amount stored can be compared with the amount in the report.
332
Which of the following controls would help prevent overpaying a vendor?
Reviewing and canceling supporting documents when a check is issued. 
Requiring the check signer to mail the check directly to the vendor.
Reviewing the accounting distribution for the expenditure.
Approving the purchase before ordering from the vendor.
1
Question Explanation
5
Reviewing and canceling the supporting documents prevents paying a vendor twice for the same purchase. If the person who signs the check cancels the required documents, they cannot be recycled in support of a duplicate payment voucher. Securing the paid voucher file from access by the accounts payable clerk is another effective control. 
Requiring the check signer to mail the check directly to the vendor would prevent the check from being misappropriated.
Reviewing the accounting distribution for the expenditure would ensure that the expenditure is debited to the proper account(s).
Approving the purchase before ordering from the vendor would ensure that only authorized purchases are made.
333
Which of the following situations will cause an internal auditor to question the adequacy of
controls over a purchasing function?

The original and one copy of the purchase order are mailed to the vendor. The copy on which the vendor acknowledges acceptance is returned to the purchasing department.
Receiving reports are forwarded to purchasing where they are matched with purchase orders and sent to accounts payable.
The accounts payable section prepares documentation for payments.
Unpaid voucher files and perpetual inventory records are independently maintained.
2
Question Explanation
5
This practice ensures accurate communication.
Purchasing and receiving should be organizationally independent. Moreover, comparing the purchase order and the receiving report should be the responsibility of a third person. Fraud perpetrated by a purchasing department employee could be concealed if (s)he is the first to obtain the receiving report.
Accounts payable may prepare documentation but should not sign checks.
Separately maintaining unpaid vouchers and perpetual inventory records is acceptable.
334
A receiving department receives copies of purchase orders for use in identifying and recording
inventory receipts. The purchase orders list the name of the vendor and the quantities of the
materials ordered. A possible error that this system could allow is

Payment to unauthorized vendors.	 
Payment for unauthorized purchases.
Overpayment for partial deliveries.
Delay in recording purchases.
3
Question Explanation
5
Comparing receipts with purchase orders will help detect unauthorized vendors. 
Comparing receipts with purchase orders will help detect unauthorized purchases.
To ensure a fair count, the copy of the purchase order sent to the receiving clerk should not include quantities. The receiving clerk should count the items in the shipment and prepare a receiving report. Copies are sent to inventory control and accounts payable.
Using purchase orders to identify receipts will not cause a delay in recording purchases.
335
Which of the following ensures that all inventory shipments are billed to customers?

Shipping documents are prenumbered and are independently accounted for and matched with sales invoices.
Sales invoices are prenumbered and are independently accounted for and traced to the sales journal.
Duties for recording sales transactions and maintaining customer account balances are separated.
Customer billing complaints are investigated by the controller's office.
1
Question Explanation
5
Shipping documents are prepared at the time of shipment. They are prenumbered to facilitate detection of unrecorded shipments. A gap in the sequence of documents may indicate an irregularity. An employee outside the shipping department should account for these documents. Sales invoices are generated by the organization's computer system at the same time as the shipping documents and should have the same numbers. Thus, every shipping document should be matched with a sales invoice to ensure proper billing.
Accounting for sales invoices alone does not prevent or detect unbilled shipments.
Separating the duties for recording sales transactions and maintaining customer accounts does not ensure that all shipments are invoiced.
Customers who are not billed may not notify the organization.
336
An organization has grown rapidly and has just automated its human resource system. The
organization has developed a large database that tracks employees, employee benefits, payroll
deductions, job classifications, ethnic code, age, insurance, medical protection, and other
similar information. Management has asked the internal audit activity to review the new
system. The automated system contains a table of pay rates matched with the employee job
classifications. The best control to ensure that the table is updated correctly for only valid pay
changes is to

Limit access to the data table to management and line supervisors who have the authority to determine pay rates.
Require a supervisor in the department, who does not have the ability to change the table of pay rates, to compare the changes with a signed management authorization.
Ensure that adequate edit and reasonableness checks are built into the automated system.
Require that all pay changes be signed by the employee to verify that the change goes to a bona fide employee.
2
Question Explanation
5
Access to the database should be severely restricted to personnel within the human resources or payroll departments.
To maintain a proper segregation of duties, changes in pay rates should be authorized by someone outside the human resources department. Furthermore, authorization should be independently verified by an individual who does not have a recording function.
Edit checks will not detect unauthorized changes.
The control must ensure that changes in the table of pay rates are properly authorized and entered into the system.
337
An organization has grown rapidly and has just automated its human resource system. The
organization has developed a large database that tracks employees, employee benefits, payroll
deductions, job classifications, ethnic code, age, insurance, medical protection, and other
similar information. Management has asked the internal audit activity to review the new
system. An employee in the payroll department is contemplating a fraud involving the addition
of a fictitious employee and the entry of fictitious hours worked. The paycheck would then be
sent to the payroll employee&quot;s home address. The most effective control procedure to prevent
this type of fraud is to require that

A report of all new employees added be approved by someone outside of the payroll department. Also, a report showing all employees and hours worked should be sent to the supervisor's department for review. 
All new employees and their hours worked be entered by the human resources department.
All changes to employee records be approved by supervisors outside of both human resources and payroll.
The payroll department physically delivers paychecks to employees rather than mailing them.
1
Question Explanation
5
The payroll department has a recording function. It should not authorize pay rate changes or the addition or deletion of employees from the payroll. Accordingly, authorization of such changes should be made by an individual outside the department. Verification of payroll data should also be made outside the department. Proper segregation of duties is critical in the prevention of payroll fraud.
The entry of new employees and their hours should be segregated. The human resources department should not be responsible for both activities.
Approving changes in existing employee records does not prevent the fraud of entering a fictitious employee.
Physical delivery of paychecks does not prevent the payroll employee from withholding the fictitious employee's check. Moreover, a department with a recording function should not have an asset custody function.
338
An organization has grown rapidly and has just automated its human resource system. The
organization has developed a large database that tracks employees, employee benefits, payroll
deductions, job classifications, ethnic code, age, insurance, medical protection, and other
similar information. Management has asked the internal audit activity to review the new
system. Human resources and payroll are separate departments. Which of the following
combinations provides the best segregation of duties?

Human resources adds employees, payroll processes hours, and human resources delivers the paychecks to employees.  
Human resources adds employees, reviews and submits payroll hours to payroll for processing, and delivers paychecks to employees.
Human resources adds employees, and payroll processes hours and enters employee bank account numbers. Paychecks are automatically deposited in the employee's bank account.
Payroll adds employees and enters employees' bank account numbers but processes hours only as approved by human resources. Paychecks are automatically deposited in the employee's bank account.
3
Question Explanation
5
The human resources department should not add employees and deliver paychecks. These two duties should be segregated.
The functions are all performed by human resources. There is no segregation of duties.
The functions of transaction authorization and recording should be segregated to minimize opportunities for fraud. Furthermore, automatic check deposit reduces asset custody risk.
Payroll is adding employees and processing hours. These two duties should be performed by different departments.
339
Internal control should follow certain basic principles to achieve its objectives. One of these
principles is the segregation of functions. Which one of the following examples does not
violate the principle of segregation of functions?

A.	 The treasurer has the authority to sign checks but gives the signature block to the assistant treasurer to run the check-signing machine.	 
The warehouse clerk, who has the custodial responsibility over inventory in the warehouse, may authorize disposal of damaged goods.
The sales manager has the responsibility to approve credit and the authority to write off accounts.
The department time clerk is given the undistributed payroll checks to mail to absent employees.
1
Question Explanation
5
Controls include segregation of duties to reduce the risk that any person may be able to perpetrate and conceal errors or fraud in the normal course of his/her duties. Different persons should authorize transactions, record transactions, and maintain custody of assets. The treasurer's department should have custody of assets but should not authorize or record transactions. Because the assistant treasurer reports to the treasurer, the treasurer is merely delegating an assigned duty related to asset custody. The use of the check-signing machine does not conflict with any other duty of the assistant treasurer and does not involve authorization or recording of transactions. 
Authorization to dispose of damaged goods could be used to cover thefts of inventory for which the warehouse clerk has custodial responsibility. Transaction authorization is inconsistent with asset custody.
The sales manager could approve credit to a controlled entity and then write off the account as a bad debt. The sales manager's authorization of credit is inconsistent with his/her indirect access to assets.
The time clerk could conceal the termination of an employee and retain that employee' s paycheck. Record keeping is inconsistent with asset custody.
340
If internal control is well designed, two tasks that should be performed by different persons are

Approval of bad debt write-offs, and reconciliation of the accounts payable subsidiary ledger and controlling account.
Distribution of payroll checks and approval of sales returns for credit.
Posting of amounts from both the cash receipts journal and cash payments journal to the general ledger.
Recording of cash receipts and preparation of bank reconciliations.
4
Question Explanation
5
There is no conflict between writing off bad debts (accounts receivable) and reconciling accounts payable, which are liabilities.
Distribution of payroll checks and approval of sales returns are independent functions. People who perform such disparate tasks are unlikely to be able to perpetrate and conceal a fraud. In fact, some organizations use personnel from an independent function to distribute payroll checks.
Posting both ledgers would cause no conflict as long as the individual involved did not have access to the actual cash. If a person has access to records but not the assets, no danger exists of embezzlement without collusion.
Recording of cash establishes accountability for assets. The bank reconciliation compares that recorded accountability with actual assets. The recording of cash receipts and preparation of bank reconciliations should therefore be performed by different individuals because the preparer of a reconciliation could conceal a cash shortage. For example, if a cashier both prepares the bank deposit and performs the reconciliation, (s)he could embezzle cash and conceal the theft by falsifying the reconciliation.
341
Which one of the following situations represents an internal control weakness in the payroll
department?

 Payroll department personnel are rotated in their duties.
Paychecks are distributed by the employees' immediate supervisor.
Payroll records are reconciled with quarterly tax reports.
The timekeeping function is independent of the payroll department.
2
Question Explanation
5
Periodic rotation of payroll personnel inhibits the perpetration and concealment of fraud.
Paychecks should not be distributed by supervisors because an unscrupulous person could terminate an employee and fail to report the termination. The supervisor could then clock in and out for the employee and keep the paycheck. A person unrelated to either payroll record keeping or the operating department should distribute checks.
This analytical procedure may detect a discrepancy.
Timekeeping should be independent of asset custody and employee records.
342
Which of the following activities represents both an appropriate human resources department
function and a deterrent to payroll fraud?

Distribution of paychecks.
Authorization of overtime.
Authorization of additions and deletions from the payroll.
Collection and retention of unclaimed paychecks.
3
Question Explanation
5
The treasurer should perform the asset custody function regarding payroll.
 Authorizing overtime is a responsibility of operating management.
The payroll department is responsible for assembling payroll information (record keeping). The human resources department is responsible for authorizing employee transactions, such as hiring, firing, and changes in pay rates and deductions. Segregating the recording and authorization functions helps prevent fraud.
Unclaimed checks should be in the custody of the treasurer until they can be deposited in a special bank account.
343
Upon receipt of purchased goods, receiving department personnel match the quantity received
with the packing slip quantity and mark the retail price on the goods based on a master price
list. The annotated packing slip is then forwarded to inventory control and goods are
automatically moved to the retail sales area. The most significant control strength of this
activity is

 immediately pricing goods for retail sale.
Matching quantity received with the packing slip.
Using a master price list for marking the sale price.
Automatically moving goods to the retail sales area.
3
Question Explanation
5
Timing is not as important as the accuracy of prices.
Matching quantity received with the packing slip does not ensure receipt of the quantity ordered.
Use of the master price list ensures that the correct retail price is marked.
Goods may or may not be needed in retail sales.
344
Which of the following controls would prevent the ordering of quantities in excess of an
organization&quot;s needs?

Review of all purchase requisitions by a supervisor in the user department prior to submitting them to the purchasing department
Automatic reorder by the purchasing department when low inventory level is indicated by the system.
A policy requiring review of the purchase order before receiving a new shipment.
A policy requiring agreement of the receiving report and packing slip before storage of new receipts.
1
Question Explanation
5
Supervisory review at the originating department level is one means of control over the number of items ordered. This control is an example of the segregation of duties. Authorization should be separate from record keeping and asset custody.
Automatic reordering does not consider future plans, which could lead to purchases of excess material.
Review of the purchase order before receiving a new shipment is a control for the risk of accepting unordered goods.
 A policy requiring agreement of the receiving report and packing slip before storage of new receipts is a control over the risk of receiving an amount other than that ordered.
345
An organization has computerized sales and cash receipts journals. The computer programs for
these journals have been properly debugged. The internal auditor discovered that the total of the
accounts receivable subsidiary accounts differs materially from the accounts receivable control
account. This discrepancy could indicate

 Credit memoranda being improperly recorded.
Receivables being lapped.
Receivables not being properly aged.
Statements being intercepted prior to mailing.
1
Question Explanation
5
Sales returns and allowances require the crediting of accounts receivable. Thus, the recording of unauthorized credit memoranda is one explanation for the discrepancy if sales and cash receipts are properly recorded.
 Lapping entails the theft of cash receipts and the use of subsequent receipts to conceal the theft. The effect is to overstate receivables, but no difference between the control total and the total of subsidiary amounts would arise.
Aging does not involve accounting entries.
Interception of customer statements might indicate fraudulent receivables but would not cause the subsidiary ledger discrepancy.
346
An internal auditor noted that several shipments were not billed. To prevent recurrence of such
nonbilling, the organization should

Numerically sequence and independently account for all controlling documents (such as packing slips and shipping orders) when sales journal entries are recorded.
Undertake a validity check with customers as to orders placed.
Release product for shipment only on the basis of credit approval by the credit manager or other authorized person.
Undertake periodic tests of gross margin rates by product line and obtain explanations of significant departures from planned rates.
1
Question Explanation
5
The sequential numbering of documents provides a standard control over transactions. The numerical sequence should be accounted for by an independent party. A major objective is to detect unrecorded and unauthorized transactions. 
This check would not prevent or detect unrecorded and unauthorized transactions.This check would not prevent or detect unrecorded and unauthorized transactions.
Credit approval does not assure billing.
Testing gross margin rates is an analytical procedure, not a preventive control.
347
Which of the following describes the most effective preventive control to ensure proper
handling of cash receipt transactions?

Have bank reconciliations prepared by an employee not involved with cash collections and then have them reviewed by a supervisor.
One employee issues a prenumbered receipt for all cash collections; another employee reconciles the daily total of prenumbered receipts to the bank deposits.
Use predetermined totals (hash totals) of cash receipts to control posting routines.
The employee who receives customer mail receipts prepares the daily bank deposit, which is then deposited by another employee.
2
Question Explanation
5
The bank reconciliation is a detective, not a preventive, control.
Sequentially numbered receipts should be issued to determine accountability for cash collected. Such accountability should be established as soon as possible because cash has a high inherent risk. Daily cash receipts should be deposited intact so that receipts and bank deposits can be reconciled. The reconciliation should be performed by someone independent of the cash custody function.
Use of hash totals is a control over the completeness of posting routines, not cash receipts.
A cash remittance list should be prepared before a separate employee prepares the bank deposit. The list and deposit represent separate records based on independent counts made by different employees.
348
A preliminary survey of the purchasing function indicates that
Department managers initiate purchase requests that must be approved by the plant
superintendent,
Purchase orders are typed by the purchasing department using prenumbered and
controlled forms,
Buyers regularly update the official vendor listing as new sources of supply become
known,
Rush orders can be placed with a vendor by telephone but must be followed by a written
purchase order before delivery can be accepted, and
Vendor invoice payment requests must be accompanied by a purchase order and receiving
report.
One possible fault of this system is that 

Purchases could be made from a vendor controlled by a buyer at prices higher than normal.
Unnecessary supplies can be purchased by department managers.
Payment can be made for supplies not received.
Payment can be made for supplies received but not ordered by the purchasing department.
1
Question Explanation
5
A risk exposure typical of the purchasing function is that purchases may be made from vendors with respect to whom buyers or other employees have a conflict of interest. The result may be excessive prices or amounts, or poor quality of goods and services acquired. Accordingly, additions to the vendor file should be authorized at an appropriate level and not by the buyers. Similarly, bidders' lists should be approved by supervisory personnel.
The requirement of a written purchase order approved by the plant superintendent is a satisfactory control to prevent unnecessary purchases.
Payment is not made without a receiving report.
Payment requests must be supported by an approved purchase order.
349
Management is concerned with the potential for unauthorized changes in the payroll. Which of
the following is the proper organizational structure to prevent such unauthorized changes?

The payroll department maintains and authorizes all changes in the personnel records.
The payroll department is supervised by the management of the human resources division.
The payroll department's functions are limited to maintaining the payroll records, distributing paychecks, and posting the payroll entries to the general ledger.
The personnel department authorizes the hiring and pay levels of all employees.
4
Question Explanation
5
The personnel department should be responsible for these functions. 
The payroll and personnel departments should be independent.
The payroll department should not post the payroll entries to the general ledger or distribute the paychecks. These functions are the responsibility of the accounting department and the treasurer's office, respectively.
The payroll department is responsible for assembling payroll information (record keeping). The personnel department is responsible for authorizing and executing employee transactions such as hiring, firing, and changes in pay rates and deductions. Segregating these functions helps prevent fraud. Thus, the payroll for each period should be compared with the active employment files of the personnel department.
350
The manager of a production line has the authority to order and receive replacement parts for
all machinery that requires periodic maintenance. The internal auditor received an anonymous
tip that the manager ordered substantially more parts than were necessary from a family
member in the parts supply business. The unneeded parts were never delivered. Instead, the
manager processed receiving documents and charged the parts to machinery maintenance
accounts. The payments for the undelivered parts were sent to the supplier, and the money was
divided between the manager and the family member. Which of the following internal controls
would have most likely prevented this fraud from occurring?

Establishing predefined spending levels for all vendors during the bidding process.
Segregating the receiving function from the authorization of parts purchases.
Comparing the bill of lading for replacement parts to the approved purchase order.
Using the company's inventory system to match quantities requested with quantities received.
2
Question Explanation
5
Predefined spending levels would probably already include the fraudulent amounts and would only limit the size of the fraud.
Separating the parts authorization and receiving functions would have improved internal control. If the parts in question had been sent to the company and a receiving report had been prepared by an employee other than the one ordering the goods, the fraud could not have occurred. Moreover, the receiving department should not accept goods unless it has a blind copy of a properly approved purchase order for the items.
The bill of lading would agree with the purchase order. The quantity received (verified by a third party) should be compared to both the bill of lading and the purchase order.
 The computer matching would only verify the fraudulent paperwork.
351
One characteristic of an effective internal control structure is the proper segregation of duties.
The combination of responsibilities that would not be considered a violation of segregation of
functional responsibilities is

Signing of paychecks and custody of blank payroll checks. 
Preparation of paychecks and check distribution.
Approval of time cards and preparation of paychecks.
Timekeeping and preparation of payroll journal entries.
4
Question Explanation
5
Persons with record keeping but not custody of assets responsibilities should have access to blank checks, while the duty of signing checks (custodianship) should be assigned to persons (e.g., the treasurer) with no record keeping function. 
Payroll preparation and payment to employees should be segregated since they are incompatible record keeping and custodianship functions.
Approval of time cards is an authorization function that is incompatible with the record keeping function of preparation of paychecks.
Combining the timekeeping function and the preparation of the payroll journal entries would not be improper because the employee has no access to assets or to employee records in the human resources department. Only through collusion could an embezzlement be perpetrated. Accordingly, the functions of authorization, record keeping, and custodianship remain separate.
352
In a well&quot;designed internal control structure in which the cashier receives remittances from the
mail room, the cashier should not

Endorse the checks.
Prepare the bank deposit slip.
Deposit remittances daily at a local bank.
Post the receipts to the accounts receivable subsidiary ledger cards.
4
Question Explanation
5
It is a part of the custodial function, which is the primary responsibility of a cashier.
It is a part of the custodial function, which is the primary responsibility of a cashier.
It is a part of the custodial function, which is the primary responsibility of a cashier.
The cashier is an assistant to the treasurer and thus performs an asset custody function. Individuals with custodial functions should not have access to the accounting records. If the cashier were allowed to post the receipts to the accounts receivable subsidiary ledger, an opportunity for embezzlement would arise that could be concealed by falsifying the books.
353
Which one of the following situations represents an internal control weakness in accounts
receivable?

Internal auditors confirm customer accounts periodically.
Delinquent accounts are reviewed only by the sales manager.
The cashier is denied access to customers' records and monthly statements.
Customers' statements are mailed monthly by the accounts receivable department.
2
Question Explanation
5
Periodic confirmation of accounts receivable is an internal control strength.
Internal control over accounts receivable begins with a proper separation of duties. Hence, the cashier, who performs an asset custody function, should not be involved in record keeping. Accounts should be periodically confirmed by an auditor, and delinquent accounts should be reviewed by the head of accounts receivable and the credit manager. Customer statements should be mailed monthly by the accounts receivable department without allowing access to the statements by employees of the cashier's department. The sales manager should not be the only person to review delinquent accounts because (s)he may have an interest in not declaring an account uncollectible.
An employee with asset''custody responsibilities should not have access to records for that asset.
 Monthly account statements give customers an opportunity to complain about incorrect billings or missing payments.
354
Which one of the following situations represents a strength of internal control for purchasing
and accounts payable?

Prenumbered receiving reports are issued randomly.
Invoices are approved for payment by the purchasing department.
Unmatched receiving reports are reviewed on an annual basis.
Vendors' invoices are matched against purchase orders and receiving reports before a liability is recorded.
4
Question Explanation
5
 Prenumbered receiving reports should be issued sequentially. A gap in the sequence may indicate an erroneous or fraudulent transaction. 
Invoices should not be approved by purchasing. That is the job of the accounts payable department.
Annual review of unmatched receiving reports is too infrequent. More frequent attention is necessary to remedy deficiencies in internal control.
A voucher should not be prepared for payment until the vendor's invoice has been matched against the corresponding purchase order and receiving report. This procedure provides assurance that a valid transaction has occurred and that the parties have agreed on the terms, such as price and quantity.
355
To control purchasing and accounts payable, an information system must include certain source
documents. For a manufacturing organization, these documents should include

Purchase orders, receiving reports, and vendor invoices.
Receiving reports and vendor invoices.
Purchase requisitions, purchase orders, receiving reports, and vendor invoices.
Purchase requisitions, purchase orders, inventory reports of goods needed, and vendor invoices.
3
Question Explanation
5
A purchase requisition is also needed.
A purchase order and requisition are also necessary.
Before ordering an item, the purchasing department should have on hand a purchase requisition reflecting an authorized request by a user department. Before a voucher is prepared for paying an invoice, the accounts payable department should have the purchase requisition, a purchase order (to be certain the items were indeed ordered), the vendor's invoice, and a receiving report (to be certain the items were received).
 A receiving report is needed.
356
Auditors document their understanding of internal control with questionnaires, flowcharts, and
narrative descriptions. A questionnaire consists of a series of questions concerning controls that
auditors consider necessary to prevent or detect errors and fraud. The most appropriate question
designed to contribute to the auditors&quot; understanding of the completeness of the expenditure
(purchases-payables) cycle concerns the

Internal verification of quantities, prices, and mathematical accuracy of sales invoices.
Use and accountability of prenumbered checks.
Disposition of cash receipts.
Qualifications of accounting personnel.
2
Question Explanation
5
Determination of proper amounts of sales invoices concerns the valuation assertion. Also, sales invoices are part of the sales-receivables (revenue) cycle. 
A completeness assertion concerns whether all transactions and accounts that should be presented in the financial statements are so presented. The exclusive use of sequentially numbered documents facilitates control over expenditures. An unexplained gap in the sequence alerts the auditor to the possibility that not all transactions have been recorded. A failure to use prenumbered checks would therefore suggest a higher assessment of control risk. If a company uses prenumbered checks, it should be easy to determine exactly which checks were used during a period.
Cash receipts are part of the revenue cycle.
Consideration of the qualifications of accounting personnel is not a test of controls over the completeness of any cycle. This procedure is appropriate during the consideration of the control environment.
357
The initiation of the purchase of materials and supplies would be the responsibility of the

Purchasing Department.
Stores Control Department.
Inventory Control Department.
Production Department.
3
Question Explanation
5
Purchasing places orders that have been initiated and authorized by others.
Stores Control has custody of materials; it does not maintain inventory records.
The Inventory Control Department would be responsible for initiating a purchase. It has access to the inventory records and would therefore know when stocks were getting low.
The Production Department manufactures goods and obtains materials from Stores Control.
358
Multiple copies of the purchase order are prepared for record keeping and distribution with a
copy of the purchase order sent to the vendor and one retained by the Purchasing Department.
In addition, for proper informational flow and internal control purposes, a version of the
purchase order would be distributed to the
 Accounts Payable, Receiving, and Stores Control Departments.
Accounts Payable, Receiving, and Inventory Control Departments.
Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable, and Receiving Departments.
Accounts Payable, Receiving, and Production Planning Departments.
2
Question Explanation
5
Stores Control does not need to know that a purchase has been initiated.
The Accounts Payable Department should receive a copy of the purchase order for internal control purposes to ensure that all invoices paid are for properly authorized items. The Receiving Department should receive a copy (with the quantity omitted to encourage an honest count) so that its employees will know that incoming shipments were authorized and should be accepted. In addition, the department issuing the purchasing requisition (the Inventory Control Department) should receive a copy as a notification that the order has been placed.
Accounts Receivable does not need a copy.
Production Planning does not need a copy.
359
Organizational independence in the processing of payroll is achieved by functional separations
that are built into the system. Which one of the following functional separations is not required
for internal control purposes?

Separation of timekeeping from payroll preparation.
Separation of personnel function from payroll preparation.
Separation of payroll preparation and paycheck distribution.
Separation of payroll preparation and maintenance of year'to-date records.
4
Question Explanation
5
Separating timekeeping and payroll preparation is an effective control. It prevents one person from claiming that an employee worked certain hours and then writing a check to that employee. Payment to an absent or fictitious employee would therefore require collusion between two employees. 
Personnel should be separate from payroll. The former authorizes the calculation of the payroll by the latter.
Separating paycheck preparation from distribution makes it more difficult for fictitious employees to receive checks.
Most companies have their payrolls prepared by the same individuals who maintain the year'to'date records. There is no need for this functional separation because both duties involve record keeping.
360
If employee paychecks are distributed by hand to employees, which one of the following
departments should be responsible for the safekeeping of unclaimed paychecks?

 Payroll Department.
Timekeeping Department.
Production Department in which the employee works or worked.
Cashier Department.
4
Question Explanation
5
The Payroll Department was responsible for causing the check to be written.
The Timekeeping Department authorized payment based on a certain number of hours worked.
A production supervisor or fellow worker has an opportunity to intercept the check of a fictitious or terminated employee.
The responsibility for unclaimed paychecks should be given to a department that has no opportunity to authorize or write those checks. Because the treasury function serves only an asset custody function and thus has had no input into the paycheck process, it is the logical repository of unclaimed checks.
361
Organizational independence is required in the processing of customers&quot; orders in order to
maintain an internal control structure. Which one of the following situations is not a proper
separation of duties in the processing of orders from customers?

Approval by Credit Department of a sales order prepared by the Sales Department.
Shipping of goods by the Shipping Department that have been retrieved from stock by the Finished Goods Storeroom Department.
Invoice preparation by the Billing Department and posting to customers' accounts by the Accounts Receivable Department.
Approval of a sales credit memo because of a product return by the Sales Department with subsequent posting to the customer's account by the Accounts Receivable Department.
4
Question Explanation
5
Ensuring that a sales order is for a legitimate, creditworthy customer is a function of the Credit Department.
To maintain proper segregation of functions, goods should be pulled by the Storeroom Department and shipped by the Shipping Department.
Invoice preparation and account updating should be performed by two different departments.
Allowing a sales department employee to approve a credit memo without a receiving report would be unacceptably risky. Sales personnel could overstate sales in one period and then reverse them in subsequent periods. Thus, a copy of the receiving report for returned goods should be sent to Billing for preparation of a credit memo after approval by a responsible supervisor who is independent of Sales.
362
The marketing department for a major retailer assigns separate product managers for each
product line. Product managers are responsible for ordering products and determining retail
pricing. Each product manager&quot;s purchasing budget is set by the marketing manager. Products
are delivered to a central distribution center where goods are segregated for distribution to the
company&quot;s 52 department stores. Because receipts are recorded at the distribution center, the
company does not maintain a receiving function at each store. Product managers are evaluated
on a combination of sales and gross profit generated from their product lines. Many products
are seasonal and individual store managers can require that seasonal products be removed to
make space for the next season&quot;s products. Which of the following is a control deficiency in
this situation?

The store manager can require items to be removed, thus affecting the potential performance evaluation of individual product managers.
The product manager negotiates the purchase price and sets the selling price.
Evaluating product managers by total gross profit generated by product line will lead to dysfunctional behavior.
There is no receiving function located at individual stores.
4
Question Explanation
5
Goods are seasonal and store space is limited. This is a constraint that is consistent with maximizing revenue and profitability for the organization. 
The product manager is evaluated based on sales and gross profit; thus, performing both of these duties is not a conflict.
Evaluating the product managers on gross profit and budgeted sales holds them accountable for profitability. This approach is consistent with their authority over ordering and pricing.
The receiving function verifies that the goods received are those actually sent by the shipper. Without this function being performed at the store, goods could be lost, pilfered, or simply sent to the wrong store without it being discovered.
363
The marketing department for a major retailer assigns separate product managers for each
product line. Product managers are responsible for ordering products and determining retail
pricing. Each product manager&quot;s purchasing budget is set by the marketing manager. Products
are delivered to a central distribution center where goods are segregated for distribution to the
company&quot;s 52 department stores. Because receipts are recorded at the distribution center, the
company does not maintain a receiving function at each store. Product managers are evaluated
on a combination of sales and gross profit generated from their product lines. Many products
are seasonal and individual store managers can require that seasonal products be removed to
make space for the next season&quot;s products. Requests for purchases beyond those initially
budgeted must be approved by the marketing manager. This procedure
I. Should provide for the most efficient allocation of scarce organizational resources.
II.	. Is a detective control procedure.
III.	I. Is unnecessary because each product manager is evaluated on profit generated.

I only.
III only.
H and III only.

1
Question Explanation
5
The organization has two scarce resources to allocate:  its purchasing budget and the space available in its retail stores. The marketing manager is high enough in the organization to coordinate this allocation. Allowing individual product managers to approve their own requests to exceed budget would almost certainly result in misallocation. Thus, Item I is a valid choice. Item II is not a valid choice because the marketing manager asserts his/her authority before an unwanted event has taken place. Item III is not a valid choice because product managers may be tempted to commit the company to buy more product than it can finance. The marketing manager is in a position to coordinate these requests and reconcile 
The gross profit evaluation is effective in evaluating product managers, but it does not necessarily restrain excess spending.
Approval by the marketing manager is a preventive control, which deters undesirable events from occurring. A detective control detects and corrects undesirable events that have occurred. Also, the gross profit evaluation is effective only in evaluating the manager.
Approval by the marketing manager is a preventive control, which deters undesirable events from occurring. A detective control detects and corrects undesirable events that have occurred. Also, the gross profit evaluation is effective only in evaluating the manager.
364
Which of the following would minimize defects in finished goods caused by poor quality raw
materials?

Documented procedures for the proper handling of work''in'process inventory.
Required material specifications for all purchases.
Timely follow-up on all unfavorable usage variances.
Determination of the amount of spoilage at the end of the manufacturing process.
2
Question Explanation
5
Documented procedures for handling work''in'process inventory do not ensure that materials are of sufficient quality.
A preventive control is required in this situation, i.e., one that ensures an unwanted event does not take place. The most cost''effective way of achieving the goal is to keep poor quality raw materials from entering the warehouse to begin with. Of the controls listed, only required specifications will accomplish this. Answer (C) is incorrect. Follow-up on unfavorable usage variances may lead to detection and correction of use of substandard materials but does not prevent or minimize defects in products already processed.

Determination of spoilage after raw materials have been used in production is not a preventive control.
365
Which of the following is an operating control for a research and development department?

 Research and development personnel are hired by the payroll department.
Research and development expenditures are reviewed by an independent person.
All research and development costs are charged to expense in accordance with the applicable accounting principles.
The research and development budget is properly allocated between new products, product maintenance, and cost reduction programs.
4
Question Explanation
5
 Only the human resources department should be responsible for hiring. A department responsible for record keeping (e.g., payroll) should not authorize transactions.
Reviewing monetary amounts is a financial control.
Expensing R&D costs is an accounting treatment rather than a control.
Operating controls are those applicable to production and support activities. Because they may lack established criteria or standards, they should be based on management principles and methods. The appropriate allocation of R&D costs to new products, product maintenance, and cost reduction programs is an example. This is in contrast to the expensing of R&D costs, which is required by the mies of external financial reporting.
366
An internal auditor notes year-&quot;to-year increases for small tool expense at a manufacturing
facility that has produced the same amount of identical product for the last 3 years. Production
inventory is kept in a controlled staging area adjacent to the receiving dock, but the supply of
small tools is kept in an unsupervised area near the exit to the plant employees&quot; parking lot.
After determining that all of the following alternatives are equal in cost and are also feasible for
local management, the internal auditor would best address the security issue by recommending
that plant management

Move the small tools inventory to the custody of the production inventory staging superintendent and implement the use of a special requisition to issue small tools. 
Initiate a full physical inventory of small tools on a monthly basis.
Place supply of small tools in a secured area, install a key-access card system for all employees, and record each key-access transaction on a report for the production superintendent.
Close the exit to the employee parking lot and require all plant employees to use a doorway by the receiving dock that also provides access to the plant employees' parking area.
1
Question Explanation
5
Minimizing the loss of assets requires a preventive control. Giving responsibility for custody of small tools to one individual establishes accountability. Requiring that requisitions be submitted ensures that their use is properly authorized. 
A full physical inventory of small tools on a monthly basis is a periodic, detective control that is effective only in determining the amount of losses.
Placing small tools in a secured area, installing a key-access system, and recording access transactions are preventive and detective controls but do not record the amount of tools removed from the inventory.
Closing the exit to the employee parking lot does not limit access to the small tools inventory.
367
Which of the following control procedures does an internal auditor expect to find during an
engagement to evaluate risk management and insurance?

Periodic internal review of the in-force list to evaluate the adequacy of insurance coverage.
Required approval of all new insurance policies by the organization's CEO.
Policy of repetitive standard journal entries to record insurance expense.
Cutoff procedures with regard to insurance expense reporting.
1
Question Explanation
5
Obtaining insurance and periodically reviewing its adequacy are among management's responses to the findings of a risk assessment. Insurance coverage should be sufficient to ensure that the relevant assessed risks are managed in accordance with the entity's risk appetite.
CEO approval is an operational decision ordinarily delegated to a lower level manager.
A policy concerning standard journal entries is an accounting control, not a risk management and insurance control.
Cutoff procedures with regard to insurance expense reporting is an accounting control, not a risk management and insurance control.
368
One control objective of the financing/treasury cycle is the proper authorization of transactions
involving debt and equity instruments. Which of the following controls would best meet this
objective?	

Separation of responsibility for custody of funds from recording of the transaction.
Written policies requiring review of major funding/repayment proposals by the board.
Use of an underwriter in all cases of new issue of debt or equity instruments.
Requiring two signatures on all checks of a material amount.
2
Question Explanation
5
Separation of responsibility for custody of funds from recording of the transaction concerns the objective of safeguarding of assets, not authorization. 
The control objective of authorization concerns the proper execution of transactions in accordance with management's wishes. One means of achieving this control objective is the establishment of policies as guides to action. When a decision affects the capitalization of the entity, a policy should be in force requiring review at the highest level.
Use of an underwriter in all cases of new issue of debt or equity instruments does not state a control but rather a specific means of issuing securities.
Requiring two signatures on all checks of a material amount concerns the objective of safeguarding of assets, not authorization.
369
Obsolete or scrap materials are charged to a predefined project number. The materials are
segregated into specified bin locations and eventually transported to a public auction for sale.
To reduce the risks associated with this process, an organization should employ which of the
following procedures?
I. Require managerial approval for materials to be declared scrap or obsolete.
II.	. Permit employees to purchase obsolete or scrap materials prior to auction.
III.	I. Limit obsolete or scrap materials sales to a pre-approved buyer.
IV.	 Specify that a fixed fee, rather than a commission, be paid to the auction firm.

 Hand III.
I only.
II and IV.
I, III, and IV.
2
Question Explanation
5
 Permitting employees to purchase obsolete or scrap materials prior to auction is not a valid choice because it provides even more incentive to misappropriation. Limiting obsolete or scrap materials sales to a pre-approved buyer is not a valid choice because designating pre-approved buyers does not mitigate the risk of misappropriation before the materials are sold. 
A preventive control is needed. Management approval for the declaration of scrap or obsolete materials would be the soundest way of assuring there is no personal incentive for lower-level employees to get materials into the bins where the materials might be subject to misappropriation.
Permitting employees to purchase obsolete or scrap materials prior to auction is not a valid choice because it provides even more incentive to misappropriation. Specifying that a fixed fee, rather than a commission, be paid to the auction firm is not a valid choice because an auctioneer working on commission would have an incentive to maximize the entity's return.
Requiring managerial approval for materials to be declared scrap or obsolete is the only valid choice. Limiting obsolete or scrap materials sales to a pre-approved buyer is not a valid choice because designating pre-approved buyers does not mitigate the risk of misappropriation before the materials are sold. Specifying that a fixed fee, rather than a commission, be paid to the auction firm is not a valid choice because an auctioneer working on commission would have an incentive to maximize the entity's return.
370
While performing analytical procedures related to an engagement involving a social services
agency of a government entity, the internal auditor noted an unusually large increase in
payments to individual recipients who are under the direction of a particular social worker in
the agency. The internal auditor is considering making a recommendation about appropriate
controls to address a potential problem of fictitious recipients. The internal auditor has
identified the following control procedures as potential items to include in the recommendation.
I.   Require that all additions to the recipient file be independently investigated and approved
by a supervisor of the social workers.

II.  Require the use of self&quot;&quot;checking digits on the account numbers of all recipients so that any
duplicates will be immediately noted by the system.

III.  Incorporate a code into the computer program to search for duplicate names and
addresses. Develop an exception report that will go to the section supervisor whenever
duplicates are noted.


IV.  Require that social workers be rotated among recipients.

Which of the following control combinations would effectively address the internal auditor&quot; s
concerns and improve control over valid recipients?


 I, II, III, and IV.
I, II, and III.
land IV.
I, III, and IV.
4
Question Explanation
5
 Duplicate recipient account numbers are not the risk in this situation. The appropriate controls prevent or detect payments to nonexistent recipients that are sent to actual addresses under the social worker's control. 
Duplicate recipient account numbers are not the risk in this situation. The appropriate controls prevent or detect payments to nonexistent recipients that are sent to actual addresses under the social worker's control. However, rotating social workers among recipients may prevent or detect fraud.
A programmed control that searches for and reports exceptions (e.g., duplicate names and addresses) detects payments to multiple recipients at a single or a few addresses.
A supervisory review of all additions to the recipient file is a detective control that alerts management to nonexistent recipients. Once it becomes widely understood that this review will always be performed, it becomes a preventive control. A programmed control that searches for and reports exceptions (e.g., duplicate names and addresses) detects payments to multiple recipients at a single or a few addresses. Rotating social workers among recipients may prevent or detect fraud. The probability of its detection is greater when the wrongdoer's opportunity to conceal fraud is reduced. However, duplicate recipient account numbers are not the risk in this situation. The appropriate controls prevent or detect payments to nonexistent recipients that are sent to actual addresses under the social worker's control.
371
Which of the following describes a control weakness? 

Purchasing procedures are well designed and are followed unless otherwise directed by the purchasing supervisor.
Prenumbered blank purchase orders are secured within the purchasing department.
Normal operational purchases fall in the range from US $500 to US $1,000 with two signatures required for purchases over US $1,000.
The purchasing agent invests in a publicly traded mutual fund that lists the stock of one of the organization's suppliers in its portfolio.
1
Question Explanation
5
Well''designed procedures that are set aside at management's discretion are not adequate controls. Control procedures must be followed consistently to be effective. However, the possibility of management override is an inherent limitation of internal control.
 Use of prenumbered blank purchase orders secured within the purchasing department is a common control.
Requiring a more stringent authorization procedure for larger purchases is an appropriate control as long as documentation supports the purchases.
The purchasing agent's mutual fund investment should not be a conflict of interest. The relationship between the return on the investment and any  possible action by the agent to favor the supplier is very weak.
372
The most appropriate method to prevent fraud or theft during the frequent movement of trailers
loaded with valuable metal scrap from the manufacturing plant to the organization&quot;s scrap yard
about 10 miles away would be to

Perform complete physical inventory of the scrap trailers before leaving the plant and upon arrival at the scrap yard.
Require existing security guards to log the time of plant departure and scrap yard arrival. The elapsed time should be reviewed by a supervisor for fraud.
	Use armed guards to escort the movement of the trailers from the plant to the scrap yard.
Contract with an independent hauler for the removal of scrap.
2
Question Explanation
5
Performing a complete physical inventory of the scrap at both locations would not be economically feasible. 
Having the security guards record the times of departure and arrival is a cost-effective detective control because it entails no additional expenditures. Comparing the time elapsed with the standard time allowed and investigating material variances may detect a diversion of part of the scrap.
Hiring armed guards to escort the scrap trailers is unlikely to be cost- effective unless the scrap is extremely valuable. Logging departures and arrivals will be sufficient in most cases.
Using an independent hauler would provide no additional assurance of prevention or detection of wrongdoing.
373
A utility with a large investment in repair vehicles would most likely implement which internal
control to reduce the risk of vehicle theft or loss?

Review insurance coverage for adequacy.
Systematically account for all repair work orders.
Physically inventory vehicles and reconcile the results with the accounting records.
Maintain vehicles in a secured location with release and return subject to approval by a custodian.
4
Question Explanation
5
Insurance provides for indemnification if loss or theft occurs. It thus reduces financial exposure but does not prevent the actual loss or theft.
An internal control designed to ensure control over repair work performed has no bearing on the risk of loss.
Taking an inventory is a detective, not a preventive, control.
Physical safeguarding of assets is enacted through the use of preventive controls that reduce the likelihood of theft or other loss. Keeping the vehicles at a secure location and restricting access establishes accountability by the custodian and allows for proper authorization of their use.
374
Which of the following controls could be used to detect bank deposits that are recorded but
never made?

Establishing accountability for receipts at the earliest possible time.
Linking receipts to other internal accountabilities, for example, collections to either accounts receivable or sales.
Consolidating cash receiving points.
Having bank reconciliations performed by a third party.
4
Question Explanation
5
Early establishment of accountability will not help detect bank deposits recorded on the books but not deposited in the bank. 
The issue is not accountability for receipts but detection of failure to make deposits.
The number of receiving points does not impact the failure to make recorded deposits.
Having an independent third party prepare the bank reconciliations would reveal any discrepancies between recorded deposits and the bank statements. A bank reconciliation compares the bank statement with entity records and resolves differences caused by deposits in transit, outstanding checks, NSF checks, bank charges, errors, etc.
375
To minimize the risk that agents in the purchasing department will use their positions for
personal gain, the organization should

Rotate purchasing agent assignments periodically.
Request internal auditors to confirm selected purchases and accounts payable.
Specify that all items purchased must pass value-per-unit-of-cost reviews.
Direct the purchasing department to maintain records on purchase prices paid, with review of such being required each 6 months.
1
Question Explanation
5
The risk of favoritism is increased when buyers have long-'term relationships with specific vendors. Periodic rotation of buyer assignments will limit the opportunity to show favoritism. This risk is also reduced if buyers are required to take vacations.
Confirmation does not enable internal auditors to detect inappropriate benefits received by purchasing agents or deter long-'term relationships.
Value-per-unit-of-cost reviews could be helpful in ensuring a certain level of value received for price paid but do not directly focus on receipt of inappropriate benefits by purchasing agents.
Review of records every 6 months does not enable the organization to detect receipt of inappropriate benefits by an agent or deter relationships that could lead to such activity.
376
Management can best strengthen internal control over the custody of inventory stored in an off-
site warehouse by implementing

 Reconciliations of transfer slips to/from the warehouse with inventory records.
Increases in insurance coverage.
Regular reconciliation of physical inventories to accounting records.
Regular confirmation of the amount on hand with the custodian of the warehouse.
3
Question Explanation
5
A control over the movement of inventory to and from the warehouse provides no assurance over the custody of the inventory while in the warehouse.
Increasing insurance coverage helps protect the entity against losses but does not strengthen internal control over the custody of inventory.
 A detective control is needed, one that will reveal, on a regular basis, any discrepancies between the inventory records and the actual inventory on hand. Periodic comparison of the recorded accountability for inventory with the actual physical inventory will accomplish this.
Confirming with the custodian the amount of inventory on hand does not verify that the inventory is actually at the warehouse.
377
A manufacturer uses large quantities of small, inexpensive items, such as nuts, bolts, washers,
and gloves, in the production process. As these goods are purchased, they are recorded in
inventory in bulk amounts. Bins are located on the shop floor to provide timely access to these
items. When necessary, the bins are refilled from inventory, and the cost of the items is charged
to a consumable supplies account, which is part of shop overhead. Which of the following
would be an appropriate improvement of controls in this environment?

 Relocate bins to the inventory warehouse.
Require management review of reports on the cost of consumable items used in relation to budget.
Lock the bins during normal working hours.
None of the above controls are needed for items of minor cost and size.
2
Question Explanation
5
The bins should be on the shop floor where the nuts, bolts, etc., are needed.  
In accordance with the cost-benefit criterion, control expenditures for manufacturing supplies (nuts, bolts, etc.) should be minimal. Nevertheless, some controls should be implemented. For example, usage should be estimated and compared with stock balances and also with the number of using personnel. Moreover, variances should be calculated for the difference between costs incurred and budgeted amounts.
Locking the bins would limit the efficiency and effectiveness of shop personnel.
Controls are needed even for items of minor cost and size.
378
When a supplier of office products is unable to fill an order completely, it marks the out-of-
stock items as back ordered on the customer&quot;s order and enters these items in a back order file
that management can view or print. Customers are becoming disgruntled with the supplier
because it seems unable to keep track of and ship out-of-stock items as soon as they are
available. The best approach for ensuring prompt delivery of out-of-stock items is to

 Match the back order file to goods received daily.
Increase inventory levels to minimize the number of times that out-of-stock conditions occur.
Implement electronic data interchange with supply vendors to decrease the time to replenish inventory.
Reconcile the sum of filled and back orders with the total of all orders placed daily.
1
Question Explanation
5
A directive control is appropriate here, i.e., one that is designed to cause or encourage the occurrence of a desirable event. Matching the back order file with goods received daily is the surest way of facilitating prompt delivery of out-of-stock items.
An increase in inventory minimizes out-of-stock conditions but has no effect on tracking and shipping goods as soon as they are available.
More efficient replenishment of its own inventory has no effect on tracking and shipping goods as soon as they are available.
Reconciling the sum of filled and back orders with the total of all orders placed daily ensures that orders were either filled or back ordered but will not affect delivery of the items that are out of stock.
379
Which of the following observations by an auditor is most likely to indicate the existence of
control weaknesses over safeguarding of assets?
I. A service department&quot;s location is not well suited to allow adequate service to other units.
II.	. Employees hired for sensitive positions are not subjected to background checks.
III.	I. Managers do not have access to reports that profile overall performance in relation to
other benchmarked organizations.
IV.	 Management has not taken corrective action to resolve past engagement observations
related to inventory controls.

land II only.
I and IV only.
II and III only.
II and IV only.
4
Question Explanation
5
A service department's location concerns achieving organizational objectives, not safeguarding of assets.
A service department's location concerns achieving organizational objectives, not safeguarding of assets. But failure to do background checks is a control weakness related to asset security.
Managers not having access to reports profiling overall performance concerns achieving organizational objectives.
Internal auditors evaluate risk exposures and the adequacy and effectiveness of controls relating to, among other things, safeguarding of assets (Standard 2130.Al). Lack of background checks for employees hired for sensitive positions and failure to take corrective action on past engagement observations relating to safeguarding of assets are red flags signifying control weaknesses. Regular reference and background checks, integrity tests, and drug screening are hiring procedures that may be part of an effective ethical culture. Furthermore, internal auditors follow up on engagement results to determine what corrective actions have been taken or whether management or the board has assumed the risk of not taking action. If the CAE believes the risk assumed may be unacceptable to the organization, (s)he must discuss the matter with senior management and the board (Standards 2500.Al and 2600).
380
A control likely to prevent purchasing agents from favoring specific suppliers is

 Requiring management's review of a monthly report of the totals spent by each buyer.
Requiring buyers to adhere to detailed material specifications.
Rotating buyer assignments periodically.
Monitoring the number of orders placed by each buyer.
3
Question Explanation
5
Requiring review of a monthly report of the totals spent by each buyer does not enable the organization to detect receipt of inappropriate benefits by an agent or deter relationships that could lead to such activity. 
Detailed material specifications will not prevent buyer favoritism in placing orders.
The risk of favoritism is increased when buyers have long-term relationships with specific vendors. Periodic rotation of buyer assignments will limit the opportunity for any buyer to show favoritism to a particular supplier.
The number of orders placed is not relevant to preventing favoritism.
381
Appropriate internal control for a multinational corporation&quot;s branch office that has a monetary
transfer unit requires that

The individual who initiates wire transfers not reconcile the bank statement.
The branch manager receive all wire transfers.
Foreign currency rates be computed separately by two different employees.
Corporate management approve the hiring of monetary transfer unit employees.
1
Question Explanation
5
A control is any action taken by management to enhance the likelihood that established goals and objectives will be achieved. Controls include segregation of duties to reduce the risk that any person may be able to perpetrate and conceal errors or fraud in the normal course of his/her duties. Different persons should authorize transactions, record transactions, and maintain custody of the assets associated with the transaction. Independent reconciliation of bank accounts is necessary for good internal control.
Having the branch manager receive all wire transfers is not an important internal control consideration.
Foreign currency translation rates are verified, not computed. Having two employees in the same department perform the same task will not significantly enhance internal control.
Corporate management approval of hiring monetary transfer unit employees is not an important internal control consideration.
382
An internal auditor is reviewing the organization&quot;s policy regarding investing in financial
derivatives. The internal auditor normally expects to find all of the following in the policy
except

A statement indicating whether derivatives are to be used for hedging or speculative purposes.
A specific authorization limit for the amount and types of derivatives that can be used by the organization.
A specific limit on the amount authorized for any single trader.
A statement requiring board review of each transaction because of the risk involved in such transactions.
4
Question Explanation
5
A policy specifying whether derivatives are to be used for hedging or speculating is a crucial directive control.
A policy specifying the authorization limits for derivatives is an appropriate directive control.
A policy specifying the authorization limits for derivatives is an appropriate directive control.
A policy requiring board review of every derivatives transaction is cost ineffective. Management is responsible for daily operations and is expected to conform to the policies of the board.
383
Which of the following control procedures provides the greatest assurance that all donations to
a not-for-profit organization are immediately deposited to the organization&quot;s account?	

Use alockbox to receive all donations.
Perform periodic reviews of the organization's cash receipts by tracing deposits to the original posting in the cash receipts records.
Require that all donations be made by check.
Require issuance of a confirmation receipt to all donors, with the receipt issued by the person who opens and deposits the cash receipts.
1
Question Explanation
5
A lockbox system expedites receipt of funds and provides effective control over cash receipts. Donors send their payments to mailboxes, often in numerous locations, that are checked by a bank several times a day. Hence, payments are deposited before being processed by the organization's accounting system. 
The flaw in this procedure is that it focuses only on deposits that were made. The concern is with cash receipts that were not deposited.
An individual may deposit a check to a similarly named organization.
The same person should not be responsible for the cash receipts and the confirmations. The person could confirm receipts even if they were diverted.
384
An internal auditor is assigned to perform an engagement to evaluate the organization&quot;s
insurance program, including the appropriateness of the approach to minimizing risks. The
organization self-insures against large casualty losses and health benefits provided for all its
employees. The organization is a large national firm with over 15,000 employees located in
various parts of the country. It uses an outside claims processor to administer its healthcare
program. The organization&quot;s medical costs have been rising by approximately 8% per year for
the past 5 years, and management is concerned with controlling these costs. The healthcare
processor wishes to implement controls that would help prevent fraud by dentists who are
submitting billings for services not provided. Assume further that all the claims are submitted
electronically to the healthcare processor. Which of the following control procedures would be
the most effective?

Develop a program that identifies procedures performed on an individual in excess of expectations based on the age of the employee, whether a similar procedure was performed recently, or the average cost per claim. 
Require all submitted claims to be accompanied by a signed statement by the dentist testifying that the claimed procedures were performed.
Send confirmations to the dentists requesting them to confirm the exact nature of the claims submitted to the healthcare processor.
Develop an integrated test facility and submit false claims to verify that the system is detecting such claims on a consistent basis.
1
Question Explanation
5
Under this detective control, unusual claims could be identified and followed up to determine if they are legitimate. This control is a type of IT input control known as a reasonableness test. 
Requiring a signed statement does not prevent the dentist from ming a false claim.
Sending confirmations to the dentists does not prevent the ming of false claims or a false response to the confirmation.
An integrated test facility would only provide information about the correctness of the processing of the claim or a false response to the confirmation, not on the propriety of the claim.
385
A rental car agency&quot;s fleet maintenance division uses a different code for each type of inventory
transaction. A daily summary report lists activity by part number and transaction code. The
report is reconciled by the parts room supervisor to the day&quot;s material request forms and is then
forwarded to the fleet manager for approval. The reconciliation of the summary report to the
day&quot;s material request forms by the parts room supervisor

 Verifies that all material request forms were approved.
Provides documentation as to what material was available for a specific transaction.
Confirms that all material request forms are entered for all parts issued.
Ensures the accuracy and completeness of data input.
4
Question Explanation
5
This reconciliation would not necessarily include a review of authorizations.
The material available for a specific transaction is not part of the reconciliation.
Not all request forms may have been submitted.
This reconciliation is an input control to verify that data entry is accurate and complete. The parts requested should be consistent with the parts used in the maintenance activities. Unexplained variances should be investigated.
386
During an engagement involving a construction contract, the internal auditor discovered that
the contractor was being paid for each ton of dirt removed. The contract called for payment
based on cubic yards removed. Which internal control might have prevented this error?

Comparison of invoices with purchase orders or contracts.
Comparison of invoices with receiving reports.
Comparison of actual costs with budgeted costs.
Extension checks of invoice amounts.
1
Question Explanation
5
This detective control would have revealed that the contractor's invoice used a unit of measure different from that in the contract. Thus, the basis of payment was not what was called for in this unit-price contract. 
The dirt removed would not have been received by the organization. Hence, no receiving reports would have existed.
This comparison would not have detected the specific reason for a variance.
The problem was not a mathematical error but an erroneous basis for payment.
387
During an engagement involving a purchasing department, an internal auditor discovered that
many purchases were made (at normal prices) from an office supplier whose owner was the
brother of the director of purchasing. Controls were in place to restrict such purchases and no
fraud appears to have been committed. In this case, the internal auditor should recommend.

The development of an approved-vendor file initiated by the buyer and approved by the director of purchasing.
Establishment of a price policy (range) for all goods.
The initiation of a conflict-of-interest policy.
The inspection of all receipts by receiving inspectors.
3
Question Explanation
5
An approved-vendor file approved by the director would not prevent a conflict of interest.
Price is not a factor when dealing with conflicts of interest.
A policy is one means of achieving control. It is a general guide to and limit on action that should be clearly stated in writing and systematically communicated to appropriate parties. A conflict-of-interest policy should contain directives that restrict business dealings with relatives unless otherwise disclosed to and approved by senior management.
The inspection of all receipts by receiving inspectors is an appropriate receiving control that does not pertain to this situation.
388
Which of the following policies and procedures is consistent with effective administration of
the insurance function?

Billings for insurance coverage are received and payments disbursed by the insurance manager.
Policy coverages are adjusted each year by applying a price index to previous year coverages.
Final settlements are negotiated after claims are developed and submitted.
Policies are always placed with the carrier that offers the lowest rate for a specified level of coverage.
3
Question Explanation
5
The manager has too many responsibilities; there is no separation of duties. The receipt of billings and the disbursement of payments should be done by different people.
While policy coverages should be systematically evaluated each year to assure appropriate coverage, mere adjustment for inflation is not adequate to determine the degree of risk that should be insured.
The claims handling process begins with prompt reporting by the affected operational unit of the organization of any basis for a claim. Prompt reporting is required to permit the insurer to take whatever steps it may deem necessary to reduce the ultimate compensable loss. The insurance function then cooperates with the operational unit to document and formally submit the claim to the carrier. Subsequently, the insurance function will be involved in any required review of the claim and negotiation of a settlement
Prudence dictates that other factors, e.g., the financial resources of the carrier and the fairness and efficiency of claims handling, be considered in addition to rates.
389
A recent inventory shortage at XYZ Corp., an unaffiliated supplier, contributed to production
failures at OPS Corp. in the current period. To avoid future production failures because of
supplier inventory shortages, the most appropriate method is for OPS to

Establish an inventory control framework at XYZ.
Increase the size of orders.
Produce the inventory items instead of purchasing from suppliers.
Inform XYZ about its risk appetite regarding supply failures.
4
Question Explanation
5
 OPS has no authority to establish an inventory control framework at XYZ. 
Increasing order size does not address the cause of supplier failures.
Although in-house production will eliminate the external parties, it may not be the most cost effective method. The external party may have cost advantages the organization does not.
The risk appetite is the level of risk that an organization is willing to accept (Glossary). In an enterprise risk management (ERM) system, the risk appetite is considered in (I) evaluating strategic options, (2) setting objectives, and (3) developing risk management techniques. Thus, communicating about the risk appetite with external parties is an important aspect of risk management. It allows the organization to develop strategies to work with suppliers who may have different objectives.
390
A system of internal control includes physical controls over access to and use of assets and
records. A departure from the purpose of such procedures is that

 Access to the safe-deposit box requires two officers.
Only storeroom personnel and line supervisors have access to the raw materials storeroom.
The mailroom compiles a list of the checks received in the incoming mail.
Only salespersons and sales supervisors use sales department vehicles.
2
Question Explanation
5
It is appropriate for two officers to be required to open the safe- deposit box. One supervises the other.
Storeroom personnel have custody of assets, and supervisors are in charge of execution functions. To give supervisors access to the raw materials storeroom is a violation of the essential internal control principle of segregation of functions.
The mailroom typically compiles a prelisting of cash. The list is sent to the accountant as a control for actual cash sent to the cashier.
Use of sales department by only sales personnel is appropriate.
391
An employee should not be able to visit the organization&quot;s safe deposit box containing
investment securities without being accompanied by another employee. What would be a
possible consequence of an employee&quot;s being able to visit the safe deposit box unaccompanied?

 The employee could pledge organizational investments as security for a short-term personal bank loan.
The employee could steal securities and the theft would never be discovered.
It would be impossible to obtain a fidelity bond on the employee.
There would be no record of when organizational personnel visited the safe deposit box.
1
Question Explanation
5
The bank should maintain a record, which can be inspected by organizational personnel, of all safe deposit box visits. Access should be limited to authorized officers. Organizations typically require the presence of two authorized persons for access to the box. This precaution provides supervisory control over, for example, the temporary removal of the securities to serve as a pledge for a loan (hypothecation of securities).
An engagement involving investment securities would eventually uncover an outright theft assuming no alteration of the asset records.
Obtaining a fidelity bond is contingent upon the character of the employee, not the presence of a specific control.
The bank maintains a record of visits.
392
One of two office clerks in a small organization prepares a sales invoice; however, the invoice
is incorrectly entered by the bookkeeper in the general ledger and the accounts receivable
subsidiary ledger for a smaller amount resulting from a transposition of digits. The customer
subsequently remits the amount on the monthly statement. Assuming only three employees are
in the department, the most effective control to prevent this type of error is

Assigning the second office clerk to make an independent check of prices, discounts, extensions, footings, and invoice serial numbers.
Requiring that monthly statements be prepared by the bookkeeper and verified by one of the other office clerks prior to mailing.
Using predetermined totals to control posting routines.
Requiring the bookkeeper to perform periodic reconciliations of the accounts receivable subsidiary ledger and the general ledger.
3
Question Explanation
5
The misposting was an error that occurred subsequent to this step. 
These controls will not detect an initial misposting. The statements and the reconciliation are based on the misposted records.
A control total should be generated for the transactions to be posted. It should then be compared with the total of items posted to the individual accounts.
These controls will not detect an initial misposting. The statements and the reconciliation are based on the misposted records.
393
Which of the following aspects of the administration of a compensation program is the most
important control in the long run?

 An informal wage and salary policy to be competitive with the industry average.
A plan of job classifications based on predefined evaluation criteria.
A wage and salary review plan for individual employee compensation.
A level of general compensation that is reasonably competitive.
2
Question Explanation
5
A vague policy would contribute little if anything to the fair administration of compensation programs.
Job classifications and grades are established during the job analysis phase and the general level of compensation in the community and in the industry must be determined. Compensation is then fixed based on the plan of job classifications, usually within a range for each grade. A range is necessary to allow for flexibility. Compensation should be low enough to avoid excess cost and to permit competitive pricing but high enough to attract needed personnel.
 A plan for reviewing individual compensation presupposes a classification plan.
Reasonably competitive compensation is predicated on a classification plan.
394
To minimize potential financial losses associated with physical assets, the assets should be
insured in an amount that is

Supported by periodic appraisals.
Determined by the board of directors.
Automatically adjusted by an economic indicator such as the consumer price index.
Equal to the book value of the individual assets.
1
Question Explanation
5
Based on the results of the risk assessment, the internal audit activity should evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of controls encompassing the organization's governance, operations, and information systems. This should include, among other things, safeguarding of assets (2120.Al). Safeguarding assets includes insuring them. The types and amounts of insurance should be supported by periodic appraisals. 
 The determination of insurance coverage is not a function of the board of directors.
The consumer price index generally does not provide an appropriate adjustment factor for fixed assets.
Book values may not reflect the replacement or real value of an asset.
395
Internal auditors frequently recommend that formal policies be written. However, the presence
of certain conditions in an organization minimizes the need for written policies. One condition
that minimizes the need for written policies is
A high division of labor
A strong organizational culture
A large span of control
A strict unity of command
2
Question Explanation
6
Specialization of labor increases the need for supervision and formal policies and procedures 
If the culture is strong, the organization's key values are intensely held and widely shared. Substantial training has been expended to achieve this high degree of acceptance, minimizing the need for formal, written policies 
Large spans of control minimize the ability of a manager to provide direct supervision. They increase the need for the indirect supervision provided by formalized policies and procedures 
An organization exhibiting strict unity of command also most likely requires strict adherence to policies and procedures. Formalization of those policies and procedures promotes adherence 
396
The optimal span of control of a manager is contingent upon several situational variables. For
instance, a manager supervising workers within the same work area who are performing
identical tasks that are simple and repetitive would best be able to supervise

An unlimited number of employees
Only a few workers (a narrow span of control).
A relatively large number of employees (a wide span of control).
Fewer workers than if the workers were geographically dispersed
3
Question Explanation
6
Although a manager may be able to supervise a large number of employees, an upper limit must exist 
The conditions described support a wide, rather than a narrow, span. 
In any situation, underlying variables influence the number of subordinates a manager can supervise. In general, if jobs are similar, procedures are standardized, and physical dispersion is minimized, a wide span of control is most effective. 
Geographical dispersion decreases the span of control
397
Which of the following factors is least likely to affect a manager&quot;s optimal span of control?
Frequency of supervisor-subordinate contact
The manager's willingness to delegate authority
The manager's training and communication skills
Number of people in the organization
4
Question Explanation
6
Managers who can contact subordinates frequently are able to control more people than those who have relatively infrequent contact with subordinates. 
Managers who delegate authority have more time to control the subordinates who report to them. These individuals can therefore supervise more people than managers who prefer not to delegate authority
Managers who have received effective training and are skillful communicators are equipped to control more individuals than managers who are untrained or have deficient communication skills 
The optimal span of control is the number of subordinates a manager can effectively supervise. It is a function of many situational factors. However, the total number of people in an organization has no bearing on the optimal span of control of a particular manager 
398
Which of the following is a likely effect of a narrow span of control?
The manager closely supervises employees
Each employee is given more responsibility
The organizational structure is flexible
The manager's control over employees is limited
1
Question Explanation
6
The span of control is the number of subordinates for which a manager or supervisor is responsible. When the span of control is narrow, a few subordinates are tightly controlled. A narrow span of control is typical of tall organizational structures 
Greater employee responsibility is a likely effect of a wide span of control, which is likely to be found in flat organizational structures 
Flexibility of structure is a likely effect of a wide span of control, which is likely to be found in flat organizational structures 
Limited control over employees is a likely effect of a wide span of control, which is likely to be found in flat organizational structures 
399
When determining the appropriate span of control, the most important consideration is
The set of policies and procedures currently in effect
The typical span of control used by other organizations
The preference of the organization's creditors
That all departments will be evaluated, whether or not they will be affected
1
Question Explanation
6
The most important factors to consider are the employees' and manager' s preferences and skills, the organization's culture, the tasks involved, physical location of the department, and established policies and procedures 
Although examining similar entities may be useful, it is not one of the most important considerations 
 This consideration would only be necessary if required by an agreement with the creditors. 
Whether all departments will be evaluated is not normally considered in a span-of-control decision 
400
As an organization increases the number of employees, its structure becomes more complex.
Rules become more formalized and more supervisors are hired to direct the increased numbers
of subordinates. What is the nature of the size-structure relationship?

The size-structure relationship is linear.
The structure becomes fixed once an organization attains a level of about 200 employees.
The size-structure relationship is concave.
None of the answers are correct.
4
Question Explanation
6
The size-structure relationship is likely to be linear but only within a narrow range. 
The size-structure relationship is likely to be linear but only within a narrow range. 
The size-structure relationship is likely to be linear but only within a narrow range. 
As an organization increases in size, its structure tends to become more formal and mechanistic. More policies and procedures are necessary to coordinate the increased number of employees, and more managers must be hired. However, the relationship between size and changes in structure is linear only within a certain range. For example, adding 100 employees to a company with 100 employees is likely to cause significant structural change, but adding the same number to a workforce of 10,000 is likely to have little impact. By the time a company reaches a certain size (1,500 to 2,000 or more), it usually has most of the qualities of a mechanistic structure. 
401
The difference between a tall organizational structure and a flat organizational structure is that
in the former

The communication process takes longer and is of poorer quality.
Maintenance of the organization is less costly.
The morale of lower-level employees is generally higher.
A higher degree of coordination and cooperation is created.
1
Question Explanation
6
Flat organizational structures have relatively few levels from top to bottom. Tall organizational structures have many levels between top and bottom. Flat structures have the advantages of fast information flow from top to bottom of the organization and increased employee satisfaction. Tall structures are faster and more effective at problem resolution because of the increased frequency of interaction between superior and subordinate and the greater order imposed by the hierarchy. Studies do not indicate great advantages for either flat or tall structures. 
An advantage of a flat structure is that maintenance of the organization is less costly 
An advantage of a flat structure is that the morale of lower-level employees is generally higher. 
An advantage of a flat structure is that a higher degree of coordination and cooperation is created 
402
Which of the following is a disadvantage of a flat organizational structure?
Employees are not encouraged to be creative.
The input of fresh ideas from outside the organization is limited because employee turnover is low. 
Managers spend too much time training individuals and not enough time supervising.
Employees may not be performing work tasks properly.
4
Question Explanation
6
The lack of supervision increases employee flexibility.
The number of management levels limits the opportunity for advancement, which may cause high employee turnover. 
Managers spend too much time supervising, and employees do not receive enough supervision 
A flat organizational structure concentrates decision-making authority at one level. Tasks and performance objectives may be unclear to employees because of a lack of supervision. 
403
An organization that combines strict adherence to the unity of command with high division of
labor may cause problems for customers trying to obtain information. Of the following, which
is the most probable type of internal environment this structure creates?

Networked and formal.
Compartmentalized and informal.
Networked and informal.
Compartmentalized and formal.
4
Question Explanation
6
The structure is not networked.
The structure is not informal
The structure is not networked or informal
A high division of labor results in specialization. Unity of command clarifies authority and responsibility relationships. An organizational structure with a high division of labor and a strict unity of command is a classic bureaucracy. Thus, it is           compartmentalized and formal. 
404
In organizations in which new product groups are often created, a structure that combines
functional and product departmentation and creates dual lines of authority would be optimal.
The best structure for this organization is

Professional bureaucracy.
Mechanistic.
Matrix.
Machine bureaucracy.
3
Question Explanation
6
A professional bureaucracy is a structure with high complexity and low formalization in which highly trained specialists have great autonomy 
A mechanistic structure is complex, formal, and centralized. It adheres to the unity-of-command concept 
A matrix organization has vertical and horizontal lines of authority because the product manager borrows specialists from various functions who continue to report to their functional managers. Thus, the resulting arrangement is a hybrid of functional and product departmentation. The advantage is flexibility and rapidity of response to new conditions. The disadvantage is violation of the unity-of-command concept. 
A machine bureaucracy is formal and complex.
405
In what form of organization does an employee report to multiple managers?
Bureaucracy.
Matrix.
Departmental.
Mechanistic.
2
Question Explanation
6
 In a bureaucracy, each subordinate reports to a single manager.
A matrix organization (project management) has vertical and horizontal lines of authority. The project manager borrows specialists from line functions as needed. This manager's authority is limited to the project, and the specialists will otherwise report to the line managers 
Departmental organization structures represent the typical organization with unified and clear single lines of authority 
Mechanistic organization structure is another term for a bureaucracy. 
406
Which of the following is not true with regard to matrix structures for organizations?
It is akin to functional structures in that it fosters specialization.
It is akin to divisional structures in that it has an explicit focus on results.
It only works well when the organization's projects or products have a short life cycle.
The major disadvantage of matrix structures is their potential for creating confusion and power struggles. 
3
Question Explanation
6
As in functional structures, members are assigned to work groups based on their specialization 
As in divisional structures, members are organized around specific products or projects 
A matrix organization creates dual lines of authority by compromising between functional and product departmentation. For example, a manager may be appointed for each product who then draws on personnel organized by function. These individuals simultaneously report to a manager for each function. This form is used in research and development and in project management. No limitation on the length of the life cycle exists. Hence, research does not suggest that matrix structures work well only in short life cycles 
The dual lines of authority found in matrix structures violate the principle of unity of command. 
407
Departmentation is the grouping of organizational subsystems. The greatest advantage of
functional departmentation is that it

Provides the benefits of specialization.
Facilitates communication among primary functions.
Helps to focus on achievement of organizational goals.
Is appropriate for geographically dispersed organizations.
1
Question Explanation
6
Departmentation by function is the most widely used method and is found in almost every enterprise at some level. The most common departments are selling, production, and finance (though other terms may be used). These often extend upward in the organizational chart to the level below the chief executive. If persons within a department have similar knowledge, skills, and interests, they can specialize in the solution of particular problems. Thus, problem solving becomes more efficient. 
Departmentation by function facilitates communication within rather than among departments 
The focus may tend to be on departmental, not organizational, goals. 
Territorial departmentation may be preferable for these organizations. 
408
Dual reporting is most characteristic of which method of departmentation?
Territorial
Functional.
Product.
Matrix.
4
Question Explanation
6
Departmentation by territory does not require violation of the unity of command principle 
Departmentation by function does not require violation of the unity of command principle 
Departmentation by product does not require violation of the unity of command principle 
A matrix organization consists of a project team formed with people from various functional areas within the organization. These specialists report simultaneously to the project manager and the managers of their functional departments. At the end of the project, the team is disbanded. 
409
A small furniture manufacturer with 100 employees is located in a two-story building and does
not plan to expand. The furniture manufactured is not special-ordered or custom-made. Its most
likely organization structure is

Functional departmentation.
Product departmentation.
Matrix organization.
Divisional organization.
1
Question Explanation
6
Organizing by function categorizes jobs according to the activity performed. It avoids duplication of effort and allows for specialization. It permits workers with similar expertise to work in a coordinated subunit. If the same activities are required for the manufacture of all items produced, organizing production in accordance with those activities (functions) is efficient. 
 Product departmentation is appropriate for organizations that produce multiple lines of products. 
 Matrix organization is used in research and development and project management. 
Divisional organization is appropriate for large firms.
410
Which organizational structure will likely have unity-of-command problems unless frequent
and comprehensive communication occurs among the various functional and project managers?

Line and staff.
Strategic business unit.
Centralized.
Matrix.
4
Question Explanation
6
A line and staff structure is designed to maximize unity of command by giving only line managers the authority to make decisions affecting those in their chains of command. 
A strategic business unit is a subunit that is treated as an independent business. Thus, unity of command is not an issue for a strategic business unit. A centralized structure need not have unity-of-command problems if management is organized in a line and staff fashion. 
A centralized structure need not have unity-of-command problems if management is organized in a line and staff fashion. 
The matrix organizational structure allows authority to flow both vertically and horizontally. A manager is appointed for each project. This manager draws on personnel who are organized by function and report to a manager for each function. This structure violates the principle of unity of command, which states that each subordinate should have only one superior. Hence, frequent and comprehensive communication is necessary to prevent power struggles and conflicts of interest. 
411
Which management principle is violated when an employee answers to several bosses?
Authority
Division of work.
Span of control.
Unity of command.
4
Question Explanation
6
Authority is the right to direct and exact performance from others. It includes the right to prescribe the means and methods by which the work will be done.  
Under the division-of-work principle, groups of people must divide their work and specialize to accomplish work most efficiently.
Under the span-of-control principle, the number of subordinates a superior can effectively supervise is limited. 
Under the unity-of-command principle, each subordinate should have only one superior (although a superior may have as many subordinates as allowed by the superior's span of control). Violation of the principle of unity of command leads to confusion and frustration for the subordinate.
412
When an organization depends to a great extent on its environment, which of the following
statements best characterizes the relationship among an organization&quot;s environment, the level
of uncertainty it faces, and its structure?  The more dynamic and complex the environment, the

More uncertainty the organization will face and the more organic the structure should be.
More uncertainty the organization will face and the more mechanistic the structure should be 
Less uncertainty the organization will face and the more autocratic the structure should be.
Less uncertainty the organization will face and the more organic the structure should be.
1
Question Explanation
6
 A dynamic and complex organizational environment faces constant change, so the level of uncertainty increases. The more uncertainty an organization faces, the more organic the structure should be. Organic organizations tend to be flexible and adaptive to change. 
A dynamic and complex environment is more uncertain, so it requires a flexible structure. 
A dynamic and complex environment is more uncertain, so it requires a flexible structure 
A dynamic and complex environment is more uncertain, so it requires a flexible structure. 
413
The relationship between organizational structure and technology suggests that, in an
organization using mass production technology (for example, automobile manufacturing), the
best structure is

Organic, emphasizing loose controls and flexibility.
Matrix, in which individuals report to both product and functional area managers.
Mechanistic, that is, highly formalized with tight controls.
Integrated, emphasizing cooperation among departments.
3
Question Explanation
6
An organic structure is flexible and therefore not suited to mass production. 
Matrix is not a type of structure but rather a type of departmentation. 
Manufacturers have been categorized as engaged in unit production (units or small batches), mass production (large batches), or process production (continuous processing). Mass production is most effective if the entity has a mechanistic structure characterized by moderate vertical differentiation, high horizontal differentiation, and high formalization. This structure is one in which tasks are well defined, most communication is downward, and control is tight. 
An integrated structure is a nonsense term in this context. 
414
How an organization&quot;s structure relates to the environment in which it operates is important to
its success. The structure of the organization can be mechanistic (a rigid pyramid-shaped
organization) or organic (a flexible and adaptive organization). Which of the following items is
not characteristic of the interaction between an organization&quot;s environment and its structure?

The more dynamic the environment, the more the organization's structure should be organic 
The more complex the environment, the more the organization's structure should be mechanistic. 
The more stable the environment, the more the organization's structure should be mechanistic. 
The more scarce the environment, the more the organization's structure should be organic.
2
Question Explanation
6
A dynamic environment is characterized by a high degree of unpredictability. Thus, an organic structure is indicated.
The complexity of an environment is a function of the heterogeneity and concentration of its elements. For example, an organization with numerous and constantly changing competitors faces a complex environment. Such an environment requires the flexibility and adaptability of an organic structure.
A stable environment is the opposite of a dynamic environment, and a mechanistic structure is indicated.
A scarce environment is one with little capacity for growth. A mechanistic structure is best suited for this environment. 
415
A divisional arrangement organizational structure is most likely to be found in what kind of
organizational structure?

Mechanistic
Organic. 
Bureaucratic. 
Classical. 
2
Question Explanation
6
The mechanistic model emphasizes clear definition of duties and authority by position in the hierarchy (vertical specialization); numerous, well'documented policies, procedures, and mies; complex formal controls; and centralized staff. The strong centralized control in this model is inconsistent with divisional structure. 
The organic structure is at the opposite end of the design continuum from a mechanistic organization. An organic structure has groupings of similar persons and resources in subunits (horizontal specialization); relatively few policies, procedures, and mies; less stringent formal controls; decentralized staff; and matrix or divisional departmentation. 
The bureaucratic model emphasizes clear definition of duties and authority by position in the hierarchy (vertical specialization); numerous, well'documented policies, procedures, and mies; complex formal controls; and centralized staff. The strong centralized control in this model is inconsistent with divisional structure. 
The classical model emphasizes clear definition of duties and authority by position in the hierarchy (vertical specialization); numerous, well'documented policies, procedures, and mies; complex formal controls; and centralized staff. The strong centralized control in this model is inconsistent with divisional structure. 
416
The term for the organizational design strategy favored by the classical school of management
is

Mechanistic.
Organic.
Project management.
Contingency
1
Question Explanation
6
The traditional approach to organizing the structure of roles to facilitate the achievement of goals emphasizes authority, responsibility, tasks, hierarchy, etc. Because this approach tends to set up prescribed or dictated relationships, it has been called mechanistic. 
An organic organization has few hierarchical levels, low reliance on positional authority, and few dictated relationships among members. 
The matrix form of organization is used for project management. It temporarily combines product and functional structure for the duration of the project. 
The contingency or modem organizational structure is based on the particular situation, including environmental influences, technical considerations, and the size and age of the organization. 
417
A large organization uses assembly line techniques to manufacture a single product. Its choice
of relatively mechanistic organizational design was most likely based on its

Need for rapid response to environmental change. 
Primary concern for operational efficiency. 
Low fixed technology requirement. 
Project management emphasis. 
2
Question Explanation
6
Rapid response to environmental change is characteristic of an organic organization. This arrangement often works best when the fixed asset base is relatively small because the organization must respond rapidly to frequent environmental change. 
Mechanistic organizations have vertical structures with duties and authority clearly defined by position in the hierarchy, a stringent set of formal controls, and a centralized staff. Such organizations tend to emphasize efficiency and operate in a stable environment with well-established technology. Large firms in basic industries (autos, utilities) often adopt this structure. 
A low fixed technology requirement is characteristic of an organic organization. This arrangement often works best when the fixed asset base is relatively small because the organization must respond rapidly to frequent environmental change. 
A project management emphasis is characteristic of a matrix form of organization. 
418
The organizational structure most appropriate for product development activity is

Organic. 
Geographic. 
Centralized. 
Mechanistic. 
1
Question Explanation
6
Organic organizations tend to be flexible and highly adaptive to change. They allow for participative lateral communication and informal interaction among departments and personnel. These characteristics are favorable for product development, a process requiring creativity, cooperation, and a rapid response to change. Organic organizations are the opposite of mechanistic organizations. 
Geographic location structure provides departmental resources closest to customers or sources of supply. 
Centralization is the relative retention of decision-making authority by top management. 
Mechanistic organizations tend to be bureaucratically rigid. 
419
Environmental factors that are important to the organization include all of the following except

Competitors. 
Physical resources. 
The economy. 
Uncertainty. 
4
Question Explanation
6
Competitors are environmental factors. 
Physical resources are environmental factors. 
The economy is an environmental factor. 
Every organization's environment has three key dimensions: capacity, volatility, and complexity. Capacity is the degree of growth an environment can support. Volatility concerns the relative instability in the environment. Complexity refers to the amount of heterogeneity and concentration; e.g., an industry with a few very large firms is homogeneous and concentrated. Uncertainty is not a specific environmental factor. Rather, the foregoing factors determine the level of uncertainty present in the environment. 
420
Although bureaucracy is often perceived negatively by the public, it is a feature of nearly every
large company. Which of the following is a sign that a bureaucracy is dysfunctional?

A diversity of jobs. 
Rules that obscure responsibility. 
A large number of rules necessary for day-to'-day operations. 
Obedience to authority. A4
2
Question Explanation
6
A diversity of jobs prevents employees from becoming bored with routine and unchallenging tasks. 
A sign that a bureaucracy is dysfunctional is the development of mies that are meaningless or that obscure accountability. A lack of accountability shows that the bureaucracy is ineffective at identifying the source problems and creating solutions to solve the problems. 
Many bureaucracies have mies to guide day to day operations. As long as the mies have a purpose and are not meaningless, the mies do not create a dysfunctional environment. 
Obedience to authority is required for a corporation's operations to run smoothly. However, obedience at all costs is a sign that the bureaucracy is dysfunctional 
421
A characteristic of a bureaucratic organizational structure is that

It is small and simple. 
Work assignments are rarely delegated. 
No hierarchy must be followed for communications purposes. 
The divisions of labor are distinct. 
4
Question Explanation
6
Bureaucratic organizations are usually large and complex. 
In a bureaucratic organization, efficiency is most likely to be achieved through a high degree of task delegation. 
A bureaucratic organization is characterized by a hierarchy of authority, which is typically adhered to when communicating. 
Organizational structure is the order and disposition of lines of responsibility. A bureaucracy is an organizational structure in which tasks are specialized under a given set of rules and a hierarchy of authority. Division of labor is the separation of work loads into small segments to be performed by one or more people. 
422
Which of the following is an advantage of bureaucratic organizational structures?

The routine activities and performance methods related to a particular task are invariable and clearly defined to the employee. 
Open positions are filled by individuals recruited from outside the organization to bring in new perspectives and backgrounds. 
The organizations are typically decentralized to allow a subunit manager to make more timely decisions. 
The minimization of the opportunity for social interaction enhances efficiency. 
1
Question Explanation
6
Each employee's job description defines the related activities and procedures, which do not vary over time. The result is certainty and consistency with regard to the routines and procedures of a job function. 
Open positions are usually filled by employees of the organization through promotion.
Centralization is typical of bureaucratic organizations. 
The impersonality of bureaucracy reduces the human and social processes that promote individual employee growth. 
423
A likely effect of a bureaucratic structure on employee motivation is that

Employee performance will be mediocre because of inflexible standards and impersonal surroundings. 
An employee will pursue organizational goals because of the employee's participation in establishing them. 
Morale will be high because of each employee's feeling of belonging and ownership. 
Job enrichment will be high because of each employee's involvement in developing and adapting his/her job description and required tasks. 
1
Question Explanation
6
In a bureaucracy, standards for evaluating job performance do not fluctuate because required tasks change slowly, if at all. The work environment is impersonal, which limits individual growth of employees because no incentive for extraordinary performance is present. 
Employees of a bureaucracy do not participate in decision making. 
Employees are usually unsatisfied as a result of their lack of a sense of ownership and belonging. 
Each job's description and tasks are essentially invariable. The employee has no input in the development of his/her function. 
424
Centralization and decentralization are defined according to the relative delegation of decision&quot;
making authority by top management. Many managers believe that decentralized organizations
have significant advantages over centralized organizations. A major advantage of a
decentralized organization is that decentralized

Organizations are easier to control. 
Structures streamline organizations and eliminate duplication of resources. 
Organizations have fewer managers than centralized organizations. 
Organizations encourage increased initiative among employees. 
4
Question Explanation
6
Decentralized organizations are more difficult to control. 
Centralized structures streamline organizations and eliminate duplication of resources. 
The number of managers is not related to the degree of centralization or decentralization but is a function of the span of control. 
A decentralized organization allows lower-level employees to participate in decision making. This increased involvement encourages initiative and creative thinking and is especially appropriate in complex and rapidly changing environments. 
425
The CEO of a rapidly growing high-technology firm has exercised centralized authority over all
corporate functions. Because the company now operates in four geographically dispersed
locations, the CEO is considering the advisability of decentralizing operational control over
production and sales. Which of the following conditions probably will result from and be a
valid reason for decentralizing?


Greater local control over compliance with governmental regulations. 
More efficient use of headquarters staff officials and specialists. 
Lower overall operating costs. 
Quicker and better operating decisions. 
4
Question Explanation
6
Compliance with governmental regulations is probably more easily achieved by centralization. A disadvantage of decentralization is the difficulty of ensuring uniform action by units of the entity that have substantial autonomy. 
Decentralization may result in duplication of efforts, resulting in less efficient use of headquarters staff officials and specialists. 
Decentralization may result in duplication of efforts, thereby increasing overall costs. 
Decentralization results in greater speed in making operating decisions because they are made by lower''level managers instead of being referred to top management. The quality of operating decisions should also be enhanced, assuming proper training of managers, because those closest to the problems should be the most knowledgeable about them. 
426
Which of the following is most likely to be a disadvantage of decentralization?

A.	 Lower-level employees will develop less rapidly than in a centralized organization. 
Lower-level employees will complain of not having enough to do. 
Top management will have less time available to devote to unique problems. 
Lower-level managers may make conflicting decisions. 
4
Question Explanation
6
Decentralization encourages development of lower''level managers. They will have greater authority. 
More tasks will be delegated to lower''level employees. 
Senior managers will be freed from operating problems. 
The disadvantages of decentralization include (I) a tendency to focus on short-run results to the detriment of the long-term health of the entity, (2) an increased risk of loss of control by senior management, (3) the increased difficulty of coordinating interdependent units, and (4) less cooperation and communication among competing decentralized unit managers. 
427
Which type of organization is based upon strategic long-&quot;term relationships based upon implicit
contracts and coordination through adaptation?

Hourglass organization. 
Cluster organization. 
Network organization. 
Virtual organization. 
3
Question Explanation
6
An hourglass organization has three layers:  a strategic layer, a group of middle managers, and lower-level technical specialists. There are also specific legal contracts in the form of employer-employee contracts. 
A cluster organization is essentially a group of teams. The teams are still part of an organization with explicit contracts, such as employer-employee contracts. 
A network organization is a network based upon coordination through adaptation. It also is based upon long-'term relationships without specific legal ties. 
A virtual organization is a network of value-adding subcontractors who are linked by electronic mediums. 
428
Halo Corporation consists of 10 groups, each of which is composed of multi-skilled workers.
Workers are often transferred between teams as needed and communication between and within
groups is emphasized. Halo Corporation is best described as a(n)

Hourglass organization. 
Cluster organization. 
Network organization. 
Virtual organization.
2
Question Explanation
6
An hourglass organization has three layers:  a strategic layer, a group of middle managers, and technical specialists. 
A cluster organization is essentially a group of teams. The workers are often multiskilled and move among teams as needed. The workers undergo special training and team-building exercises. The pay also is based upon knowledge. 
A network organization is a group of independent entities that form a strategic relationship to obtain a competitive advantage. It is an ultimate form of outsourcing. Each entity obtains goods and services from parties who are external to the entity but are members of the network.
A virtual organization is typically a group of subcontractors who are linked via the Internet, email, fax machines, and telephones.
429
An organization manufactures mirror frames. Scrap is adequately accounted for at the point of
generation. The scrap is sorted and sold frequently to the organization&quot;s regular buyer at a price
negotiated between the scrap manager and buyer. A risk exposure caused by these procedures is
that

Excessive scrap has been generated. 
The price received for scrap may be inadequate. 
The production of scrap indicates inefficiencies in production. 
The collection of amounts receivable from the scrap buyer is questionable. 
2
Question Explanation
6
Nothing suggests excessive scrap generation. 
Various problems may arise. For example, the scrap manager may be tempted to collude with the regular buyer to establish an inadequate price. In the absence of fraud, the failure to seek competing bids, the line manager's lack of expertise in negotiation, ignorance of quoted prices in established markets, and other factors may result in an inadequate price. Hence, a separate subunit of the organization may be necessary to manage all aspects of scrap disposition. 
Nothing suggests inefficiency. 
A regular buyer is likely to be reliable. 
430
To be successful, large companies must develop means to keep the organization focused in the
proper direction. Organizational control systems help keep companies focused. These control
systems consist of which three basic components?

Budgeting, financial ratio analysis, and cash management. 
Objectives, standards, and an evaluation-reward system. 
Role analysis, team building, and survey feedback. 
Setting goals, empowering employees, and job enrichment. 
2
Question Explanation
6
Budgeting, financial ratio analysis, and cash management are means of financial control. 
An organizational control system must be based on a statement of what is to be achieved and when (objectives). The accomplishment of objectives depends on the establishment of standards that serve as feedforward controls. Adherence to performance standards signifies that an organization is on course to attain its objectives. A well''developed evaluation-reward system that is clearly communicated to employees should motivate them to improved performance. 
Role analysis, team building, and survey feedback are used in developmental efforts to correct organizational deficiencies. 
Goal setting, empowerment, and job enrichment are all motivational strategies. 
431
Which of the following is true regarding the most recent traitist approach to leadership?

It attempts to identify traits possessed by leaders. 
It has produced such a long list of leadership traits that, in effect, it identifies nothing. 
It is based on scholarship, dependability, and social participation. 
It is based on social skills, judgment, maturity, and emotional control. 
4
Question Explanation
6
Each refers to the classical view of the traitist approach. 
Each refers to the classical view of the traitist approach. 
Each refers to the classical view of the traitist approach. 
The most recent traitist approach is based on the emotional intelligence of leaders, that is, their social skills and judgment, maturity, and emotional control. These abilities can be learned, especially when a manager or employee understands that immaturity, erratic behavior, and uncontrolled negative emotions have a bad effect on the workplace. 
432
According to behavior&quot;&quot;oriented researchers, which of the following statements is true regarding
autocratic leadership styles?

The manager dictates all decisions to the employees, so communication is downward and tasks are clearly defined in autocratic leadership. 
Employees in a group are given the authority and responsibility to make their own decisions in democratic leadership.
The leader delegates substantial authority and employees participate in defining and assigning tasks in laissez faire leadership. 
None of the answers are correct. 
1
Question Explanation
6
When a manager uses an autocratic leadership style, (s)he dictates all decisions to the employees, so communication is downward. Moreover, tasks are clearly defined. This is considered the classical approach to leadership. Employees are not allowed to give input. 
The leader delegates substantial authority in democratic (participative) leadership. In addition, employees participate in defining and assigning tasks. Thus, communication is actively upward as well as downward. 
Employees in a group are given the authority and responsibility to make their own decisions in laissez-faire (free rein) leadership. 
One of the answer choices is correct. 
433
A manager that manages &quot;by the book&quot; exhibits which form of leadership style?


Autocratic. 
Bureaucratic. 
Democratic. 
Free-rein. 
2
Question Explanation
6
An autocratic manager dictates all decisions to the employees. It is the classical approach to leadership. Employees are not allowed to give input. 
A bureaucratic manager is characterized as one that must do everything according to procedure and policy. If there is no policy to cover a situation, the manager refers to the next level above him/herself. 
A democratic style of management allows employees to have input in the decision making process, and the manager must include subordinates' views in the decision. 
A manager that practices the free-rein style of leadership allows employees to make their own decisions. 
434
A production worker in a plant often speaks for the entire work force when problems arise
between labor and management. Although this individual has the same level of authority and
expertise as the individual&quot;s coworkers, the worker seems to possess a degree of power that
others do not have. What type of power does this individual apparently have?

Coercive. 
B.	Referent. 
Legitimate. 
Reward. 
2
Question Explanation
6
Coercive power is based on fear or threat of punishment. 
Referent power is based on identification of subordinates with a superior. Thus, personal magnetism (charisma) may be a basis for influencing others to comply with a manager' s directives. 
Legitimate power is based on formal authority or the organizational position held by a leader. 
Reward power is based on a person' s ability to grant benefits. 
435
Leadership situations vary with regard to the degree to which the leader can determine what
subordinates will do, how they will do it, and what the results will be. According to Fiedler&quot; s
contingency theory, a leader with a relationship-oriented management style will be most
effective when (s)he exerts

Great control. 
Moderate control. 
Little control. 
Great or little control. 
2
Question Explanation
6
The relationship-oriented leader is least effective in this situation. 
A relationship-oriented manager is employee centered. His/her self-esteem is strongly affected by personal interactions with subordinates. Fiedler indicated that such a manager is most effective when not faced with the extremes of high- or low-control situations. High control follows from strong position power, a structured task, and good leader-member relations. A low-control situation has just the opposite characteristics. Iri a high-control environment, a concern for personal relations may be unimportant. Iri a low-control situation, the relationship-oriented leader may be unable to provide the needed task structuring. Thus, the moderate control situation is best. An example is an assembly-line situation (a structured task) in which leader-member relations are poor. 
The relationship-oriented leader is least effective in this situation. 
The relationship-oriented leader is least effective in this situation. 
436
Leaders of work groups tend to be primarily task-motivated (getting the job done) or
relationship-motivated (getting people to work effectively together). Studies have shown that
either type of leader can be effective in certain situations. In which of the following situations is
the relationship-motivated leader likely to be more effective than the task-motivated leader?

A highly favorable situation, in which group members enjoy working together and have clearly defined tasks, and in which the leader exercises absolute authority over promotions and other rewards. 
A highly unfavorable situation, in which group members do not enjoy working together and have vaguely defined tasks, and in which the leader lacks formal authority to control promotions and other rewards. 
A moderately favorable situation, with a combination of favorable and unfavorable factors. 
All of the answers are correct.
3
Question Explanation
6
A task-motivated leader is likely to be most effective in a highly favorable situation. 
A task-motivated leader is likely to be most effective in a highly unfavorable situation. 
According to the contingency approach, the effective leadership style or behavior depends on the situational requirements. The situational factors are leader-member relations, task structure, and position power. Hence, the leader's style has to be matched with the situation by either changing the leader or changing the leader's behavior. The task-motivated leader performs best when the situation is very favorable or unfavorable (relations are very good or bad, tasks are well or poorly defined, and the leader has or lacks clear formal authority). However, in a moderately favorable situation, the relationship-motivated leader can build on the favorable factors and work to help group members cope with the unfavorable factors. 
A task-motivated leader is likely to be most effective in a highly favorable or highly unfavorable situation. 
437
A leader who explains decisions and provides opportunity for clarification is described as
having which leadership style?

Selling. 
Telling. 
Participating. 
Delegating. 
1
Question Explanation
6
According to Hersey and Blanchard, a selling style of leadership provides a high degree of task orientation and a high degree of relationship orientation. This type of leader explains decisions and provides opportunities for clarification. Thus, upward and downward, two-way communication is active. This approach is more democratic than authoritarian. 
A telling leadership style (high task and low relationship) provides specific instructions and closely supervises performance. 
A participating leadership style (low task and high relationship) encourages the sharing of ideas and facilitates decision-making. 
A delegating leadership style (low task and low relationship) turns over responsibility for decisions and implementation. 
438
If a supervisor uses a supportive management approach, evidenced by positive feelings and
concern for subordinates, a problem might result because

An approach based on pure power makes it difficult to motivate staff. 
This approach depends on material rewards for the worker. 
This approach depends on people who want to work, grow, and achieve. 
The manager must believe in the teamwork approach. 
3
Question Explanation
6
An approach based on pure power is an autocratic style of leadership, not a supportive approach. 
The custodial model depends on material rewards for the worker. This model is predicated on the belief that a happy worker is a productive worker. 
Supportive management techniques orient workers toward performance rather than obedience or happiness. The leader should have positive feelings for his/her employees and should attempt to encourage participation and involvement. This approach is effective when used with employees who are motivated to work, improve themselves and their abilities, and accomplish goals. 
The manager's beliefs are not sufficient. The workers also must believe in the system. 
439
The manager of a team of actuaries has been asked to develop the basic pricing structure for a
new health insurance product. The team has successfully designed other pricing structures in
recent years. The manager was assigned to the team 6 months ago. What is the best leadership
style for the manager of this team?

Directive. 
Supportive. 
Participative. 
Achievement-oriented. 
3
Question Explanation
6
Directive leadership provides highest subordinate satisfaction when a team encounters substantive internal conflict, when tasks are ambiguous, and when subordinates' location of control is external. 
Supportive style is best when tasks are highly structured and the authority relationships are clear and bureaucratic. 
The participative style is most useful when subordinates believe they control their own destinies, that is, when they have an internal locus of control. Such individuals may be resentful if they are not consulted. 
Achievement-oriented style will increase subordinates' expectations that high performance will result from their best efforts. 
440
The workers in a factory have been told that their machines are obsolete and will be replaced by
new, computer-assisted machines. The workers must be retrained and are eager to learn
everything about the new machines. The manager was recently hired from a company where the
new machines were extensively used and is very familiar with them. In this case, what is the
best leadership style for the manager?

Directive. 
Supportive. 
Participative. 
Achievement-oriented. 
1
Question Explanation
6
According to path'goal theory, two groups of contingency factors affect the relationship between leadership behavior and outcomes (performance and satisfaction): environmental factors beyond subordinates' control (task structure, the formal authority system, and the work group) and subordinate factors. The latter include the subordinate's center of control, experience, and perceived ability. A leadership style should be chosen that complements but does not duplicate the factors in the environment and is consistent with subordinates' characteristics. A directive style is most effective when the subordinate's locus of control is external, tasks are ambiguous or stressful, and substantial conflict exists in the work group. Thus, a directive style is appropriate when subordinates do not have high perceived ability or experience. 
Subordinates who are neither competent nor confident are best led using the directive style. 
Subordinates with an internal locus of control need a leader with a participative style. 
Achievement-oriented leadership is appropriate when tasks are nonrepetitive and ambiguous and employee competence is high. 
441
A production team has been together for several years and has worked well together. However,
severe arguments have recently occurred between two members of the group, and other
members have begun to take sides. This problem has had a negative effect on production
performance. The best leadership style for the manager in this situation is

Directive. 
Supportive. 
Participative. 
Achievement-oriented. 
1
Question Explanation
6
Directive leadership provides highest subordinate satisfaction when a team encounters substantive internal conflict. Thus, directive leadership is the appropriate complement to the environmental factors. The leader should intervene to compensate for the stress and strife in the workplace. 
Supportive style is best when tasks and authority relationships are highly structured. 
Participative style is most useful when subordinates believe they control their own destinies. 
Achievement-oriented leadership is appropriate when tasks are nonrepetitive and ambiguous and employee competence is high. 
442
A manager in a government agency supervises a section of clerical employees who review
license applications for approval or denial. The clerical jobs are well defined procedurally and
are covered by government regulations. In this case, what is the best leadership style for the
manager?

Directive. 
Supportive.  
Participative. 
Achievement-oriented. 
2
Question Explanation
6
A directive style is most effective when the employees' locus of control is external, tasks are ambiguous or stressful, and substantial conflict exists in the work group. Thus, a directive style is appropriate when employees do not have high perceived ability or experience. 
A supportive style is best when tasks are highly structured and the authority relationships are clear and bureaucratic. This approach depends on people who want to work, grow, and achieve. The supportive style may be best when tasks are unsatisfying. 
A participative style is most useful when subordinates believe they control their own destinies. 
Achievement-oriented leadership is appropriate when tasks are nonrepetitive and ambiguous and employee competence is high. 
443
An organization&quot;s management perceives the need to make significant changes. Which of the
following factors is management least likely to be able to change?

The organization's members. 
The organization's structure. 
The organization's environment. 
The organization's technology. 
3
Question Explanation
6
The organization's members are a factor that managers are clearly able to change. 
The organization's structure is a factor that managers are clearly able to change. 
The environment of an organization consists of external forces outside its direct control that may affect its performance. These forces include competitors, suppliers, customers, regulators, climate, culture, politics, technological change, and many other factors. The organization's members are a factor that managers are clearly able to change. 
The organization's technology is a factor that managers are clearly able to change. 
444
A major corporation is considering significant organizational changes. Which of the following
groups will not be responsible for implementing these changes?

Employees. 
Top management. 
Common shareholders. 
Outside consultants. 
3
Question Explanation
6
Organizational change is conducted through change agents, who may include employees. 
Organizational change is conducted through change agents, who may include managers. 
Common shareholders are not responsible for implementing decisions within the organization. If members of the management team also are common shareholders, they must make decisions consistent with their stewardship function. Thus, they must separate their ownership interests from their managerial responsibilities. Organizational change is conducted through change agents, who may include employees, managers, or outside consultants. 
Organizational change is conducted through change agents, who may include outside consultants. Outsiders can offer an objective, independent view, but they lack knowledge of the organization and do not have to cope with the effects of the changes. 
445
An organization is changing to a quality assurance program that incorporates quality throughout
the process. This is very different from its years of dependence on quality control at the end of
the process. This type of change is a

Cultural change. 
Product change. 
Structural change. 
Organizational change. 
1
Question Explanation
6
A cultural change involves a change in attitudes and mindset. 
Product change is change in a product's physical attributes and usefulness to customers. 
No change to systems and structures is mentioned. 
No organizational change occurred. The change involves only quality assurance. 
446
Lack of skills, threats to job status or security, and fear of failure all have been identified as
reasons that employees often

Want to change the culture of their organization. 
Are dissatisfied with the structure of their organization. 
Are unable to perform their jobs. 
Resist organizational change. 
4
Question Explanation
6
Lack of skills, threats to job status or security, and fear of failure inhibit changes in the culture of the organization. 
Lack of skills, threats to job status or security, and fear of failure are not symptoms of dissatisfaction with the structure of the organization. 
Lack of skills, threats to job status or security, and fear of failure do not indicate an inability to perform. 
Employees resist change for many reasons, for example, surprise, inertia, misunderstanding, lack of skills, emotional reactions, lack of trust of management, fear of failure, personality conflicts, poor timing, management's insensitivity, threats to job status or security, and breakup of the work group. Resistance may be overcome by involving employees to gain feedback and allay fears. 
447
Of the following reasons for employees to resist a major change in organizational processes,
which is least likely?

Threat of loss of jobs. 
Required attendance at training classes. 
Breakup of existing work groups. 
Imposition of new processes by senior management without prior discussion. 
2
Question Explanation
6
Actual or imagined loss of jobs is a common reason for employees to resist any change. 
Change management is important to all organizations. An appropriate balance between change and stability is necessary if an organization is to thrive. Employee training programs educate employees to perform jobs in a new or different way. Thus, they are a means of coping with employee resistance to change through facilitation and support of the change. 
Members of work groups often exert peer pressure on one another to resist change, especially if social relationships are changed. 
is incorrect. Lack of communication and discussion of the need for change threatens the status quo, which fosters employee resistance. 
448
Employee resistance to change may be caused

Only by simple surprise or by inertia. 
By manipulation of information or events. 
By bad timing. 
Coercion. 
3
Question Explanation
6
Simple surprise and inertia are not the only possible causes of resistance. 
Manipulation of information or events is a method of coping with employee resistance to change. 
Resistance may be caused by simple surprise or by inertia, but it also may arise from (I) misunderstandings or lack of the needed skills; (2) lack of trust of, or conflicts with, management; (3) emotional reactions when change is forced; (4) bad timing; (5) insensitivity to employees' needs; (6) perceived threats to employees' status or job security; (7) dissolution of tightly knit work groups; and (8) interference with achievement of other objectives. 
Coercion is a method of coping with employee resistance. 
449
Organizational change must be considered in the light of potential employee resistance.
Resistance

May occur even though employees will benefit from the change. 
Will be greatest when informal groups are weakest. 
Will be insignificant if no economic loss by employees is expected. A3
Is centered mostly on perceived threats to psychological needs. 
1
Question Explanation
6
Resistance to change may be caused by fear of the personal adjustments that may be required. Employees may have a genuine concern about the usefulness of the change, perceive a lack of concern for workers' feelings, fear the outcome, worry about downgrading of job status, and resent deviations from past procedures for implementing change (especially if new procedures are less participative than the old). Social adjustments also may be required that violate the behavioral norms of informal groups or disrupt the social status quo within groups. Economic adjustments may involve potential economic loss or insecurity based on perceived threats to jobs. In general, any perceived deterioration in the work situation that is seen as a threat to economic, social, and/or psychological needs will produce resistance. The various adjustments required are most likely to be resisted when imposed unilaterally by higher authority. However, employees who share in finding solutions to the problems requiring change are less likely to resist because they will have some responsibility for the change. 
Strong informal groups are likely to offer more resistance. 
Resistance arises from threats to a complex pattern of economic, social, and psychological needs. 
Resistance arises from threats to a complex pattern of economic, social, and psychological needs. 
450
An internal auditor is conducting an operational review that affects several different functional
units. The auditor believes that the process under review can be improved, but the operating
managers are resistant to suggestions for change. There are several methods the auditor could
use to overcome the operating managers&quot; resistance. Identify the technique that will produce the
highest probability of success with the fewest negative side effects.

Negotiation with the operating managers. 
Participation by the managers in the decision process. 
Coercion of the managers through threats. 
Cooperation by approaching each manager individually. 
2
Question Explanation
6
Negotiation may result in sacrifice by one or both parties. Also, if significant concessions are made to one manager, the others will try to gain a similar advantage. 
Participation by the operating managers in the decision process can improve the overall decision, reduce resistance, and secure their commitment to the change. 
Coercion is a temporary solution. Resistance will only be subdued, not eliminated. In addition, future cooperation between the auditor and operating managers will be severely restricted. 
Cooperation of individual managers is not optimal. A manager approached to obtain his/her endorsement may feel that (s)he is being used. 
451
Co-optation is a

Method of coping with employee resistance. 
Cause of resistance to change. 
Model for categorizing organizational changes. 
Way of allowing meaningful input by resistant employees. 
1
Question Explanation
6
Methods of coping with employee resistance include co-optation through allowing some participation but without meaningful input. 
Co-optation is a method of coping with employee resistance. 
Co-optation is a method of coping with employee resistance. 
Co-optation is a way of allowing some participation but without meaningful input. 
452
A chief audit executive plans to make changes that may be perceived negatively by the audit
staff. The best way to reduce resistance would be to

Develop the new approach fully before presenting it to the audit staff. 
Ask the chief executive officer (CEO) to approve the changes and have the CEO attend the departmental staff meeting when they are presented. 
Approach the staff with the general idea and involve them in the development of the changes. 
Get the internal audit activitys clients to support the changes. 
3
Question Explanation
6
Fully developing the plan before presenting it to the audit staff will not help reduce their resistance to change. 
Involving the CEO will not necessarily reduce the audit stafs resistance to change. 
Change management is important to all organizations. An appropriate balance between change and stability is necessary. Organizational and procedural changes often are resisted by the individuals and groups affected. Involving the staff in the change from the beginning participation will reduce their resistance to change. 
Involving the internal audit activitys clients will not necessarily reduce the audit stafs resistance to change. 
453
Organizational development (OD) is one of the major approaches to proactive management of
change in organizations. One of the major objectives of OD is to

Increase the power of leaders. 
Align the organization's and the employees' goals. 
Attract better employees to the organization. 
Provide the organization and its managers with ways to increase efficiency. 
2
Question Explanation
6
OD focuses on participation and power sharing. 
The objectives of OD are to (I) deepen the sense of organizational purpose and align individuals with it; (2) promote interpersonal trust, communication, cooperation, and support; (3) encourage a problem-solving approach; (4) develop a satisfying work experience; (5) supplement formal authority with authority based on expertise; (6) increase personal responsibility; and (7) encourage willingness to change. 
Attracting better applicants to an organization is not a major goal of OD. 
OD provides an organization and its managers with higher effectiveness. 
454
An organization has embarked on a program of process innovation and core process redesign.
To counter resistance, it has adopted an organizational development (OD) approach that
includes

Inducing employees to share organizational purposes and values. 
Incremental change of subsystems. 
Focusing each division's attention on its own objectives. 
Manipulating information and events. 
1
Question Explanation
6
The objectives of OD are to (I) deepen the sense of organizational purpose and values and align individuals with them; (2) promote interpersonal trust, communication, cooperation, and support; (3) encourage a problem-solving approach; (4) develop a satisfying work experience; (5) supplement formal authority with authority based on expertise; (6) increase personal responsibility; and (7) encourage willingness to change. 
The change (business process reengineering) is strategic. 
The organization should not promote the silo approach. Rather, it should promote adherence to the organization's culture, values, and objectives. 
Manipulation, co-optation, and coercion tend to be ineffective means of change management. 
455
Internal auditors can be considered leading agents for change within an organization. Which of
the following is not a good way to promote this concept?

A directive from top management, stating that internal auditors will be used for all process-improvement projects. 
A brochure describing what internal auditing can do and the qualifications of the internal auditors. 
Postengagement questionnaires to obtain information on how engagement clients perceive the internal audit activity. 
Bulletins that highlight widespread or universal applications of engagement observations. 
1
Question Explanation
6
A directive does not promote, but requires, the use of internal auditors. The result may be resentment towards the internal auditors and resistance to beneficial change. Education, communication, participation in decisions by those affected, facilitation and support, and negotiation are means of overcoming resistance to change. 
Brochures are an effective way to promote internal auditors as leading agents for change within an organization. They are an educational and communication tool. 
Questionnaires provide a means of engagement client participation in change. 
Bulletins are an effective way to promote internal auditors as leading agents for change within an organization. They are an educational and communication tool. 
456
One division of a large manufacturing company has traditionally performed much better than
any of the other divisions. The management team of this division has risen through the ranks
together and exhibits no signs of conflict. Recently, earnings of the division have begun to
decline, and market share has eroded. Senior management of the parent company has asked the
director of internal audit whether the introduction of conflict by bringing in outside managers
might help resolve the deteriorating situation. The most appropriate response would be that

Conflict is dysfunctional and should not be risked under these circumstances. 
All conflict can be beneficially controlled and should be encouraged in this situation. 
The management team has been together for a long time and should be allowed to work through its problems. 
Varying the management team could introduce new ideas and be beneficial to the division, and some conflict is not a problem. 
4
Question Explanation
6
Not all conflict is dysfunctional. 
Some conflict is dysfunctional. 
Ignoring the problem does not solve it. 
Conflict may be constructive as well as destructive because it encourages self-criticism, creativity, and necessary change. Accordingly, managers may decide to stimulate controlled conflict. Techniques for this purpose may include (I) ambiguous or threatening communications; (2) hiring outsiders with different values, managerial styles, attitudes, and backgrounds; (3) designating an individual to argue against the majority opinions of the group; and (4) restructuring the organization to disrupt the status quo. Thus, bringing in outside managers may stimulate conflict but also may eliminate complacency and improve creativity. 
457
Upon completing an audit of a major operation of the company, the auditor is certain that a
proposed recommendation should be made in the audit report. However, the auditor also
understands that the recommendation will result in conflict between the auditee department and
the accounting department. The organization is not bureaucratic and encourages the
development of informal relationships across departments. Which of the following statements
is true regarding the nature of conflict in organizations?

ConHict is more likely to be functional in a bureaucratic organization than in a less formal (organic-type) organization. 
Conflict reduces the likelihood that an acceptable solution can be implemented in highly structured organizations; thus the auditor should consider revising the recommendation in order to avoid conflict. 
Conflict should be viewed as a healthy way to facilitate growth in an organization; thus the auditor should accept conflict that may result from normal audit recommendations. 
Conflict is healthy unless it clearly points out differences in the goals and objectives of the organization's operating units. 
3
Question Explanation
6
Whether conflict is functional depends on many variables. Hence, generalizations about the effect of organizational structure are untenable. However, one hypothesis is that conflict is more likely to be constructive when creative or unstructured decisions must be made. 
Conflict avoidance may be necessary in the short run but does not resolve the underlying problem. Removing the causes of dysfunctional conflict is the best long- term approach. 
The interactionist view holds that constructive or functional conflict is necessary for an organization to perform effectively. Functional conflict fosters self-criticism, innovation, and the ability to respond successfully to changing circumstances. It should be promoted, not suppressed. 
Conflict that points out differences in goals and objectives facilitates discussion and eventual growth and is therefore beneficial. 
458
Which of the following conflict resolution techniques has the goal of maintaining harmonious
relationships by placing another&quot;s needs and concerns above your own?

Accommodation. 
Compromise. 
Collaboration. 
Avoidance. 
1
Question Explanation
6
The goal of accommodation is maintaining harmonious relationships by placing an emphasis on another's needs and concerns. 
Compromise resolves conflict through a process in which each side            makes concessions. 
Collaboration resolves conflict. The parties work together to obtain a solution. 
Avoidance does not resolve conflict. It is nonaction. 
459
Time consumption is a disadvantage when managers address conflict by


Smoothing. 
Forcing. 
Problem solving. 
None of the answers are correct. 
3
Question Explanation
6
Smoothing is a short-term avoidance approach. 
Forcing occurs when a superior uses his or her formal authority to order a particular outcome. 
Problem solving is a way managers address conflicts, but it requires a large amount of time to resolve. 
Problem solving takes managers a long time to resolve conflicts. 
460
Carling, a manager, resolves a conflict between two employees, Philip and John, by
recommending concessions to be made by both employees. The two employees agree to the
concessions and the conflict is resolved. Both Philip and John gain and lose. Which of the
following describes the way Carling addressed the conflict?

Forcing. 
Smoothing. 
Compromise. 
Problem solving. 
3
Question Explanation
6
Forcing occurs when a superior uses his or her formal authority to order a particular outcome. It does not resolve the conflict. Forcing may intensify it. 
Smoothing is a short-'term avoidance approach. The parties in conflict are asked by management to submerge their differences temporarily until a project is completed. 
Compromise entails negotiation by the parties in conflict. The conflict is resolved through a process by which each side makes concessions. Thus, the parties both gain and lose. Because Philip and John each made concessions, the conflict was resolved through compromise. 
Problem solving is a means of resolving the conflict by confronting it and removing its causes. The emphasis is on facts and solutions, not personalities and assignment of blame. 
461
Which response to conflict allows the parties to address the problem instead of their positions?


Avoidance. 
Forcing. 
Interest-based bargaining. 
Smoothing. 
3
Question Explanation
6
Avoidance (withdrawing) is nonaction. It suppresses the conflict but does not solve the problem. 
Forcing results when a superior orders resolution of the conflict. Thus, resolution of the conflict is not resolved and may intensify. 
In interest'based bargaining, the parties realize that the conflict is between interests, not their opposed positions. The interests underlying the positions may be both conflicting and compatible. The strongest of these interests are basic human needs. By acknowledging and understanding the others' interests, the parties may be able to address the problem by bypassing their positions and finding a new option that serves their interests. 
Smoothing is a short-term avoidance approach. The parties are asked to suspend their differences temporarily. 
462
Two subordinate internal auditors disagree on a particular substantive engagement observation.
The best long-term approach to resolving this conflict is to

Have them jointly identify the cause of their disagreement. 
Tell them to settle down, that things will work themselves out. 
Seek a middle ground that may satisfy both internal auditors. 
Remind them this is a team effort and they should forget their differences. 
1
Question Explanation
6
In the long run, problem solving is the only effective solution because it eliminates the sources of conflict. Problem solving requires the parties to identify the actual sources of conflict, focus on factual information, and seek creating solutions. 
Smoothing is a short-term approach to conflict resolution. It does not remove the sources of conflict. 
Compromise resolves conflict by permitting each side to achieve some of its objectives. However, each party also loses something, and compromise is therefore less effective than problem solving. 
An appeal to superordinate goals is a short-term solution. 
463
During an internal audit, the auditor experienced difficulty obtaining required information from
a specific employee. When this situation continued for I week, the auditor requested a private
meeting with the employee for the purpose of identifying the problem and resolving the
difficulty through open discussion. Which conflict management technique was the auditor
applying?

Problem solving. 
Expansion of resources. 
Authoritative command. 
Altering the human variable. 
1
Question Explanation
6
The conflict management technique that involves confronting the conflict and removing its causes is problem solving. The emphasis is on facts and solutions, not personalities and assignment of blame. 
Expansion of resources addresses conflicts that arise from scarcity. 
The auditor is not using formal authority. 
The auditor is not using behavioral techniques to change attitudes and behavior. 
464
In effective negotiation, a win-win attitude is characterized by


Seeking mutual benefit and satisfaction. 
Cooperative. 
It promotes support of, and commitment to, the agreement. 
All of the answers are correct. 
4
Question Explanation
6
Cooperation and promoting support and commitment to the agreement are additional characteristics of a win-win attitude. 
Seeking mutual benefit and satisfaction and supporting and  committing to the agreement are characteristics of a win-win attitude. 
Two additional characteristics of a win-win attitude are seeking mutual benefit and satisfaction and being cooperative. 
In effective negotiation, a win-win attitude means seeking mutual benefit and satisfaction; being cooperative; and promoting support of, and commitment to, the agreement. In contrast with a win-win attitude, a win-lose attitude is competitive. It results in a zero-sum game instead of a positive-sum game. 
465
When planning for successful negotiations, the negotiator should

Understand the implications for both sides if the negotiation fails. 
Concentrate solely on the issues in the negotiation at hand. 
Not deviate from stated positions. 
Depend on the initial research prepared for the negotiation. 
1
Question Explanation
6
Negotiators should assess the best alternatives for both themselves and the other parties to determine their relative strength in the negotiation process. If alternatives are not readily available or are unattractive, a party is under additional pressure to make the negotiation work. 
The negotiator should evaluate all alternatives to avoid placing undue pressure on the success of the negotiation. 
An objective perspective may assist the negotiator in identifying alternatives. 
Additional research may be required to fully understand the other party's alternatives to negotiation. 
466
When negotiating with an analytical personality, the negotiator should


Present facts and precedents in an organized manner. 
Push the other party for quick closure of negotiations. 
Focus on creating a bond with the other party. 
Include unimportant items in the proposal for bargaining. 
1
Question Explanation
6
An analytical person tends to be drawn to details and persuaded by factual information. 
Pushing an analytical person may result in increased resistance. 
Analytical personalities make decisions based on facts rather than on emotions. 
The analytical person tends not to enjoy negotiation games as much as other personality types. If the other party believes the negotiator to be deceitful, they may be unwilling to cooperate. 
467
The negotiator, when encountering unexpected resistance from another party, should first

Attempt to determine the reason behind the resistance. 
Stop the meeting and address the other party's concerns privately. 
Restate the negotiator's position regarding the issue. 
Research the other party to determine the party's views and requirements. 
1
Question Explanation
6
The first step in overcoming unexpected resistance is to attempt to determine the reason behind the resistance. Without knowing the reason, the negotiator is unable to counter it effectively. For example, knowing whether the other party is concerned about a major issue or a detail will affect the negotiator's response. 
Generally, a resolution should be attempted at the time. Only if one or both parties to the negotiation need additional time to evaluate new information or calm down should a break be taken. 
The negotiator should first work with the other party to determine the cause of disagreement. 
Research regarding the other party should occur prior to the initial negotiation meeting. 
468
Which of the following is the acceptable minimum outcome if a negotiator cannot obtain the
desired result?


Win-win attitude. 
Cooperation. 
BATNA.
Win-lose attitude. 
3
Question Explanation
6
A win-win attitude is cooperative. It is founded on the principle that           resources are sufficient for all and a third alternative is preferable. 
Cooperation is the act of seeking mutual benefit and satisfaction. 
The BATNA is the acceptable minimum outcome if a negotiator cannot obtain the desired result. The BATNA helps a negotiator to avoid accepting an unfavorable agreement and rejecting a favorable agreement. 
A win-lose attitude is competitive. It results as a zero-sum game. 
469
Understanding the BATNA helps a negotiator to avoid which of the following?
I. Accepting an unfavorable settlement.
II. Rejecting a favorable settlement

I only. 
II only. 
land II. 
Neither I nor II. 
3
Question Explanation
6
Rejecting a favorable settlement is avoided by understanding the BATNA. 
Accepting an unfavorable settlement is avoided by understanding the BATNA. 
Accepting an unfavorable settlement and rejecting a favorable settlement are two mistakes avoided by understanding the BATNA. The BATNA is the acceptable minimum outcome if a negotiator cannot obtain the desired result. 
Accepting an unfavorable settlement and rejecting a favorable settlement are avoided by understanding the BATNA. 
470
A parent wishes to sell a subsidiary for US $1.6 billion. A buyer wishes to acquire the
subsidiary for US $1.1 billion, with the best alternative to a negotiated agreement (BATNA) of
US $1.4 billion. What is an acceptable BATNA for the seller in order for negotiation to be
feasible?

US $1.3 billion. 
US $1.5 billion. 
US $1.7 billion. 
US $1.75 billion. 
1
Question Explanation
6
A BATNA of US $1.3 billion is acceptable because the BATNA of the buyer is US $1.4 billion. Any amount over US $1.4 billion would cause negotiation to not be feasible. 
US $1.5 billion is higher than the US $1.4 billion BATNA of the buyer. The buyer will not be willing to negotiate with the seller. 
US $1.7 billion is higher than the buyer's BATNA of US $1.4 billion. Once again, negotiation is not feasible in this situation. 
US $1.75 billion BATNA is higher than the US $1.4 billion BATNA of the buyer. 
471
At a meeting with engagement managers, the chief audit executive is allocating the engagement
work schedule for next year&quot;s plan. Which of the following methods will ensure that each
manager receives an appropriate share of both the work schedule and internal audit activity
resources?

	 Work is assigned to each manager based on risk and skill analysis
	Each of the managers selects the individual assignments desired, based on preferences for the area and the management personnel involved 
	Each manager chooses assignment preferences based on the total staff hours that are currently available to each manager 
	The full list of scheduled engagements is published for the staff, and work assignments are made based on career interests and travel requirements 
1
Queston Explanation
7
Engagements must be performed with proficiency and due professional care (Standard 1200). Thus, professional care must be proportional to the complexities of the engagement and must ensure that the technical proficiency and educational background of the personnel assigned are appropriate. A skill analysis of tasks to be performed is therefore necessary. Furthermore, matters to be considered in establishing audit work schedule priorities include, among many other factors, an assessment of risk and exposures. Prioritizing is needed to make decisions about applying resources (PA 2010- I). 
Choice based on personal preference does not ensure the exercise of due professional care. 
Available staff hours do not correlate with risk or the composite skills necessary for individual assignments. 
Although career interests and travel requirements are considerations for staffing engagements, these factors do not constitute an objective basis for making assignments. 
472
The chief audit executive is preparing the audit work schedule for the next budget year and has
limited resources. Iri deciding whether to schedule the purchasing or the personnel department
for an engagement, which of the following is the least important factor?

 	 Major changes in operations have occurred in one of the departments
	The internal audit staff has recently added an individual with expertise in one of the areas
	More opportunities to achieve operating benefits are available in one of the departments than in the other. 
	Updated assessed risk is significantly greater in one department than the other
2
Question Explanation
7
A major change in operations is a reason for an engagement
. Matters to be considered in establishing work schedule priorities may include (I) the dates and results of the last engagement; (2) updated assessments of risks and effectiveness of risk management and control processes; (3) requests by senior management and the board; (4) current issues relating to organizational governance; (5) major changes in the entity's business, operations, programs, systems, and controls; (6) opportunities to achieve operating benefits; and (7) changes in and capabilities of the staff. The work schedules should be sufficiently flexible to cover unanticipated demands on the IAA. The addition of a new staff member is probably less important than the other factors cited. 
. Potential operating benefits are a reason for an engagement.
. Updated assessed risk is a reason for an engagement.
473
Which of the following factors is least likely to be considered included in determining the audit
work schedule?

Engagement work programs.
	The effectiveness of risk management and control processes
	Workload requirements.
Issues relating to organizational governance
1
Question Explanation
7
. Matters to be considered in establishing work schedule priorities may include (I) the dates and results of the last engagement; (2) updated assessments of risks and effectiveness of risk management and control processes; (3) requests by senior management and the board; (4) current issues relating to organizational governance; 5)	major changes in the entity's business, operations, programs, systems, and controls; 6)	opportunities to achieve operating benefits; and (7) changes in and capabilities of the staff. Development of work programs occurs during the planning phase of an individual engagement. 
. Determining an engagement work schedule includes considering the effectiveness of risk management and control processes. 
 Determining an engagement work schedule includes considering workload requirements.
Determining an engagement work schedule includes considering issues relating to organizational governance 
474
During discussions with senior management, the chief audit executive identified several
strategic business issues to consider in preparing the annual audit work schedule. Which of the
following does not represent a strategic issue for this purpose?

A monthly budgeting process will be implemented
	An international marketing campaign will be started to develop product recognition and also to leverage the new organization-based advertising department 
	Joint venture candidates will be sought to provide manufacturing and sourcing capabilities in           European and Asian markets 
	A human resources database will be established to ensure consistent administration of policies and to improve data retention 
1
Question Explanation
7
. The audit universe may include components from the organization's strategic plan. By including components of this plan, the audit universe will consider and reflect the overall business plan objectives (PA 2010- 1). However, implementing a monthly budgeting process is an operating decision to facilitate the budgeting process and improve information. It does not constitute a strategic issue, but it does involve a major change in operations. 
. An international marketing campaign is a strategic issue. The CAE will need to ensure that the new marketing process and the centralized advertising department are recognized and monitored in risk assessment and planning activities.
 Extending operations to European and Asian markets is a strategic issue. The addition of joint-venture partners will add new or additional concerns for risk assessment and planning in the IAA
Establishing a human resources database is a strategic issue. The assumptions and ongoing activities related to a human resources database will require consideration in the planning of the IAA 
475
Which of the following is the best source of a chief audit executive&quot;s information for planning
staffing requirements?

 Discussions of internal audit needs with senior management and the board
	Review of internal audit staff education and training records
	Review internal audit staff size and composition of similarly sized organizations in the same industry 
Interviews with existing internal audit staff.
1
Question Explanation
7
The CAE should establish risk'based plans to determine the priorities of the IAA. These plans should be consistent with the goals of the organization (Standard 2010). Input from senior management and the board is necessary for developing the IAA's risk'based plan of engagements (Standard 2010.Al). 
. The scheduled work is the first consideration in determining the number and qualifications of the staff required. Review of staff education and training records is a subsequent step. 
. The staffing plan must consider the unique needs of a particular organization. The review of staff size and composition of similarly sized organizations in the same industry may not satisfy the engagement objectives for a particular organizatio 
The scheduled work is the first consideration in determining the number and qualifications of the staff required. Interviews with existing staff occur later. 
476
Recent criticism of an internal audit activity suggested that engagement coverage was not
providing adequate feedback to senior management on the processes used in the organization&quot;s
key lines of business. The problem was further defined as lack of feedback on the recent
implementation of automated support systems. Which two functions does the chief audit
executive need to improve?

	 Staffing and communicating
	Staffing and decision making.
	Planning and organizing.
	Planning and communicating
4
Question Explanation
7
The facts do not indicate the existence of staffing problems
 Decision making and staffing are not problems
 Nothing indicates that the structure of the entity is a problem
The lack of feedback indicates the CAE has problems in planning and allocating internal audit resources to communicate necessary information to management. The CAE must establish risk'based plans to determine the priorities of the IAA, consistent with the organization's goals (Standard 2010). Furthermore, internal auditors must communicate engagement results (Standard 2400), including applicable conclusions, recommendations, and action plans (Standard 2410). 
477
The chief audit executive for an organization has just completed a risk assessment process,
identified the areas with the highest risks, and assigned an engagement priority to each. Which
of the following conclusions most logically follow(s) from such a risk assessment?
I. Items should be quantified as to risk in the rank order of quantifiable monetary exposure
to the organization.
II.	. The risk priorities should be in order of major control deficiencies.
III.	I. The risk assessment process, though quantified, is the result of professional judgments
about both exposures 


I only.
	III only
	Hand III only
	I, II, and III.
2
Question Explanation
7
Conclusions I and II state specific criteria that may not be consistent with sound professional judgment. 
Risk is the possibility of an event's occurrence that could have an impact on the achievement of objectives. Risk is measured in terms of impact (exposures) and likelihood (probability) (Glossary appended to the Standards). Work schedules are based on, among other things, an assessment of risk priority and exposure. Prioritizing is needed to make decisions for applying relative resources based on the significance of risk and exposure. A variety of risk models may assist the CAE in prioritizing potential engagement subject areas. Most of these models use risk factors to establish the priority of engagements, e.g., asset liquidity, management competence, quality of internal controls, degree of change or stability, time of last engagement, complexity, or employee and governmental relations (PA 2010- I). Higher priorities are usually assigned to activities with higher risks. However, an assessment of risk priority and exposure necessarily implies the exercise of professional judgment. Thus, although risk factors may be weighted to determine their relative significance, a ranking based solely on such specific criteria as monetary exposure or control deficiencies is not always indicated. 
 Conclusions I and II state specific criteria that may not be consistent with sound professional judgment. 
 Conclusions I and II state specific criteria that may not be consistent with sound professional judgment. 
478
A chief audit executive may use risk analysis in preparing work schedules. Which of the
following is not considered in performing a risk analysis?

	 Issues relating to organizational governance
	Skills available on the internal audit staff.
	Results of prior engagements.
Results of prior engagements.
2
Question Explanation
7
Issues relating to organizational governance are factors that should be considered. 
 Matters to be considered in establishing work schedule priorities may include (I) the dates and results of the last engagement; (2) updated assessments of risks and effectiveness of risk management and control processes; (3) requests by senior management and the board; (4) current issues relating to organizational governance; (5) major changes in the entity's business, operations, programs, systems, and controls; (6) opportunities to achieve operating benefits; and (7) changes in and capabilities of the staff. The work schedules should be sufficiently flexible to cover unanticipated demands on the IAA. The skills of the staff do not affect the risk associated with potential engagement clients. 
 Results of prior engagements should be considered
Major operating changes should be considered
479
Which of the following comments is(are) true regarding the assessment of risk associated with
two projects that are competing for limited internal audit resources?
I. Activities that are requested by the board always should be considered higher risk than
those requested by management.
II.	Activities with higher financial budgets always should be considered higher risk than
those with lower financial budgets.
III.	I. Risk always should be measured by the potential monetary or other adverse exposure to
the organization.


I only.
II only.
III only
land III
3
Question Explanation
7
Activities requested by the board do not necessarily have greater risk
Activities with higher financial budgets do not necessarily have greater risk. 
Risk is the uncertainty of an event's occurrence that could have an impact on the achievement of objectives. Risk is measured in terms of impact (consequences) and likelihood (probability) (Glossary). Audit work schedules are based on, among other things, an assessment of risk and exposures (PA 2010- I). However, a rigid procedure for conducting the risk assessment, including the assignment of engagement priorities, should not be followed. Thus, a ranking based on the source of a request for performance of an engagement or the financial budget of an engagement client is unlikely to reflect a comprehensive assessment based on a sufficient number of risk factors. A criterion based on the degree of adverse exposure to the organization is preferable 
 A ranking based on the source of a request for performance of an engagement is unlikely to reflect a comprehensive assessment based on a sufficient number of risk factors. 
480
Which of the following represent(s) appropriate internal audit action in response to the risk
assessment process?
I. The low-risk areas may be delegated to the external auditor, but the high-risk areas should
be performed by the internal audit activity.
II.	. The high-risk areas should be integrated into an audit work schedule along with the high&quot;
priority requests of senior management and the audit committee.
III.	I. The risk analysis should be used in determining an annual audit work schedule. Thus, the
risk analysis should be performed only on an annual basis.

I only.
II only.
III only.
	land III only.
2
Question Explanation
7
 Work should be coordinated with the external auditor to avoid duplication of effort and to ensure adequate coverage, but allocation of tasks to the external auditor and the IAA is not necessarily risk based. Moreover, changing conditions may require updating the risk assessment during the year. 
 The risk assessment is preliminary to the development of the engagement work schedule. Higher priorities are usually assigned to engagement subject areas with higher risks. Thus, updated assessments of risks and effectiveness of risk management and control processes are considered in establishing engagement work schedule priorities. Matters to be considered in establishing work schedule priorities may include (I) the dates and results of the last engagement; (2) updated assessments of risks and effectiveness of risk management and control processes; (3) requests by senior management and the board; (4) current issues relating to organizational governance; (5) major changes in the entity's business, operations, programs, systems, and controls; (6) opportunities to achieve operating benefits; and (7) changes in and capabilities of the staff. The work schedules should be sufficiently flexible to cover unanticipated demands on the IAA. Work is coordinated with the external auditor to avoid duplication of effort and to ensure adequate coverage, but allocation of tasks to the external auditor and the IAA is not necessarily risk'based. Moreover, changing conditions may require updating the risk assessment during the year. 
 Work should be coordinated with the external auditor to avoid duplication of effort and to ensure adequate coverage, but allocation of tasks to the external auditor and the IAA is not necessarily risk based. Moreover, changing conditions may require updating the risk assessment during the year. 
Work should be coordinated with the external auditor to avoid duplication of effort and to ensure adequate coverage, but allocation of tasks to the external auditor and the IAA is not necessarily risk based. Moreover, changing conditions may require updating the risk assessment during the year. 
481
The internal auditor is considering making a risk analysis as a basis for determining the areas of
the organization where engagements should be performed. Which one of the following
statements is true regarding risk analysis?

The extent to which management judgments are required in an area could serve as a risk factor in assisting the internal auditor in making a comparative risk analysis. 
The highest risk assessment should always be assigned to the area with the largest potential loss 
The highest risk assessment should always be assigned to the area with highest probability of occurrence. 
Risk analysis must be reduced to quantitative terms in order to provide meaningful comparisons across an organization 
1
Question Explanation
7
Most risk models use risk factors to establish the priority of engagements, for example, impact, likelihood, materiality, asset liquidity, management competence, quality of internal controls, degree of change or stability, time of last engagement, complexity, or employee or governmental relations (PA 2010-1). Hence, the internal auditor could appropriately consider the extent of management competence, including judgment, as a risk factor. 
. Risk analysis considers both the potential loss (or damages) and the probability of occurrence. An area with the largest potential loss may have a very low expected loss. 
 A high probability of occurrence may be associated with a small
The concept of risk analysis is not limited to quantitative measures.
482
The chief audit executive set up a computerized spreadsheet to facilitate the risk assessment
process involving a number of different divisions in the organization. The spreadsheet included
the following factors:
*  Pressure on divisional management to meet profit goals
*  Complexity of operations
*  Competence of divisional personnel
*  The monetary amount of subjectively influenced accounts in the division, such as
accounts in which management&quot;s judgment can affect the expense, e.g., postretirement
benefits
 The CAE used a group meeting of internal audit managers to reach a consensus on the
competence of divisional personnel. Other factors were assessed as high, medium, or low by
either the CAE or an internal audit manager who had performed an engagement at the division.
The CAE assigned a weight ranging from 0.5 to I .0 to each factor and then computed a
composite risk score. Which statement is true?

	 The risk analysis is not appropriate because it mixes both quantitative and qualitative factors, thereby making expected values calculation impossible 
	Assessing factors at discrete levels such as high, medium, and low is inappropriate for the risk assessment process because the ratings are not quantifiable 
	The weighting is subjective and should have been determined through a process such as multiple-regression analysis. 
Using a subjective group consensus to assess personnel competence is appropriate.
4
Question Explanation
7
Risk analysis considers all appropriate factors. It need not be limited to quantitative or expected value calculations. 
High, medium, and low may be the most precise measures available.
Subjective analysis is acceptable. Use of multiple-regression analysis to determine a weighted average for the risk-weighting model is not feasible because no criteria exist to determine the weightings. 
 The risk assessment incorporates information from a variety of sources, such as discussions with the board and management and with internal audit management and staff. Thus, seeking the consensus of experienced internal audit managers regarding personnel matters is appropriate. This method tends to eliminate the extreme judgments that might be made by a single evaluator. 
483
A chief audit executive (CAE) uses a risk assessment model to establish the annual audit plan.
Which of the following would be an appropriate action by the CAE?
I. Maintain ongoing dialogue with management and the audit committee
II.	. Ensure that the schedule of audit priorities remains unchanged
III.	I. Employ only quantitative methods to determine risk weightings
IV.	 Revise the risk assessment and audit priorities as warranted

III only.
	I and II only.
	I and IV only.
	III and IV only
3
Question Explanation
7
The weighting of risk is both a quantitative and a qualitative (judgment) exercise. 
 Audit schedules will likely change regularly to meet the needs of the organization, particularly if based on an effective risk assessment process. 
The CAE must establish risk-based plans to determine the priorities of the internal audit activity, consistent with the organization' s goals (Standard 201 0). It is a best practice for risk assessment to be a dynamic process, changing over time and as new information, business strategies, and risks are identified. Ongoing consultation with members of management and the board is a way for the internal audit activity to obtain such information and stay attuned to organizational developments that may affect existing audit priorities. To accommodate such emerging priorities, the work schedule may need to be altered. 
 The weighting of risk is both a quantitative and a qualitative (judgment) exercise. Furthermore, the CAE should engage in ongoing consultation with members of management and the board. 
484
When a risk assessment process has been used to construct an audit engagement schedule,
which of the following should receive attention first?

The external auditors have requested assistance for their upcoming annual audit.
	A new accounts payable system is currently undergoing testing by the information technology department. 
Management has requested an investigation of possible lapping in receivables
The existing accounts payable system has not been audited over the past year.
3
Question Explanation
7
External audit requests for assistance should be subordinate to fraud investigations. 
 Given that the new system is not yet in production, it need not receive immediate attention. 
Prioritizing is needed to make decisions about applying resources to engagements based on the relative significance of their risk and exposure estimates. Most risk models use risk factors to establish engagement priorities. Internal auditors traditionally regard fraud as significant even if the immediate exposure is not. Thus, management's request to investigate a possible fraud in the accounts receivable unit must take precedence. 
A management request involving a fraud should take priority over a system that has not been audited over the past year. 
485
Which of the following factors is considered the least important in deciding whether existing internal audit resources should be moved from an ongoing compliance engagement to a divisional&quot;&quot;level engagement requested by management?
A financial audit of the division performed by the external auditor a year ago.
The potential for fraud associated with the ongoing engagement
An increase in the level of expenditures experienced by the division for the past year.
The potential for significant regulatory fines associated with the ongoing engagement.
1
Question Explanation
7
Prioritizing is needed to make decisions about applying relative resources based on the significance of risk and exposure. Most risk models use risk factors to establish engagement priorities. One such factor is the potential for fraud. Internal auditors traditionally regard fraud as significant even if the immediate exposure is not significant. Increased expenditures also constitute a significant risk factor because they represent an increase in potential loss. For the same reason, potential regulatory fines may also create an exposure sufficiently great to affect the determination of priorities. Thus, the result of an external financial audit performed a year ago is the least likely to affect the current allocation of internal audit resources. Any adverse engagement observations most probably have been acted upon, and, in any case, may not be germane to the ongoing compliance engagement or the proposed divisional-level engagement
Potential fraud is likely to be a more important factor in the use of limited internal audit resources than the results of an external financial audit.
Increased expenditures is likely to be a more important factor in the use of limited internal audit resources than the results of an external financial audit.
. Potential significant fines are likely to be a more important factor in the use of limited internal audit resources than the results of an external financial audit
486
A chief audit executive is reviewing the following enterprise-wide risk map: Which of the following is the correct prioritization of risks, considering limited resources in the internal audit activity?
Risk B, Risk C, Risk A, Risk D.
Risk A, Risk B, Risk C, Risk D.
Risk D, Risk B, Risk C, Risk A.
Risk B, Risk C, Risk D, Risk A.
3
Question Explanation
7
isk D clearly takes precedence over Risk C. It has a higher likelihood and a greater impact
Risk B clearly has a higher priority than Risk A. It has a higher likelihood and the same impact.
Risk is the possibility of an event's occurrence that could have an impact on the achievement of objectives. Risk is measured in terms of impact (consequences) and likelihood (probability). Prioritizing is needed to make decisions for applying resources to engagements based on the relative significance of their risk and exposure estimates. The best order of priority listed (highest to lowest) is (I) Risk D (likely-major), (2) Risk B (possible- critical), (3) Risk C (possible-minor), and (4) Risk A (remote-critical). However, it is not entirely clear that Risk D and Risk C should have higher priorities than Risks B and A, respectively. For example, depending on the values assigned to the variables, a possible-critical impact (B) might have a higher priority than a likely-major impact (D).
Risk D has a higher likelihood and a greater impact than Risk C.
487
Which of the following represents the best risk assessment technique?
Assessment of the risk levels for future events based on the extent of uncertainty of those events and their impact on achievement of long-'term organizational goals.
Assessment of the risk levels for future events based on the extent of uncertainty of those events and their impact on achievement of long-'term organizational goals.
Assessment of the risk levels of current and future events, their effect on achievement of the organization's objectives, and their underlying causes
Assessment of the risk levels of current and future events, their impact on the organization's mission, and the potential for elimination of existing or possible risk factors.
3
Question Explanation
7
 Causation also should be considered
 Risk events include more than those classified as inherent and control risks (terms used in the audit risk model used in financial statement audits). Moreover, a comprehensive approach should be adopted
Risk is the possibility of an event's occurrence that could have an impact on the achievement of objectives. Risk is measured in terms of impact (consequences) and likelihood (probability). Most risk models use risk factors to establish engagement priorities (PA 201 0-2). This is the best response because it takes a comprehensive approach to risk assessment. It considers not only the event and the impact but also the causes.
Elimination of risks is less likely than mitigation.
488
During the planning phase, a chief audit executive (CAE) is evaluating four audit engagements based on the following factors: the engagement&quot;s ability to reduce risk to the organization, the engagement&quot;s ability to save the organization money, and the extent of change in the area since the last engagement. The CAE has scored the engagements for each factor from low to high, assigned points, and calculated an overall ranking. The results are shown below with the points in parentheses: Risk Cost Audit Reduction Sa I High (3) Medium (2) Low (1) 2 High (3) Low (I) High (3) 3 Low (I) High (3) Medium Which audit engagements should the CAE pursue if all factors are weighed equally?
1 and 2 only
1 and 3 only
2 and 4 only
3 and 4 only
3
Question Explanation
7
 Audit I has fewer total points than audit 4.
Audits I and 3 have fewer total points than audits 2 and 4.
The CAE must establish risk'based plans to determine the priorities of the IAA, consistent with the organization's goals (Standard 201 O). Among the many factors considered in setting priorities are (I) updated assessments of risks and the effectiveness of risk management and control; (2) major changes in the organization's business, operations, programs, systems, and controls; and (3) opportunities to achieve operating benefits. Accordingly, given that risk reduction, cost savings, and changes in areas to be audited are weighted equally, the CAE should purse audits 2 and 4 because they have the highest total points.
Audit 3 has fewer total points than audit 2
489
During the planning phase, a chief audit executive (CAE) is evaluating four audit engagements based on the following factors: the engagement&quot;s ability to reduce risk to the organization, the engagement&quot;s ability to save the organization money, and the extent of change in the area since the last engagement. The CAE has scored the engagements for each factor from low to high, assigned points, and calculated an overall ranking. The results are shown below with the points in parentheses: Risk Cost Audit Reduction Sa Changes I High (3) Medium (2) Low (I) 2 High (3) Low (I) High (3) 3 Low (I) High (3) Medium (2) 4 Medium (2) Medium (2) High (3) If the organization has asked the CAE to consider the cost savings factor to be twice as important as any other factor, which engagements should the CAE pursue?
1 and 2 only.
I and 3 only.
2 and 4 only.
3 and 4 only.
4
Question Explanation
7
Audit I and audit 2 have 8 total points each.
Audit 1 has 8 total points.
Audit 2 has 8 total points.
After doubling the cost savings points, audit 3 [I + (2 x 3) + 2 - 9] and audit 4 [2 + (2 x 2) + 3 - 9] have the highest total points.
490
Questions&gt;Which of the following is the best reason for the chief audit executive to consider the strategic
plan in developing the annual audit plan?

. Audit I and audit 2 have 8 total points each
. Audit 1 has 8 total points
Audit 2 has 8 total points
After doubling the cost savings points, audit 3 [I + (2 x 3) + 2 - 9] and audit 4 [2 + (2 x 2) + 3 - 9] have the highest total points. 
1
Question Explanation
7
The chief audit executive must establish risk'based plans to determine the priorities of the internal audit activity, consistent with the organization's goals (Standard 20 l0). Including the strategic plan in the audit universe ensures that it reflects the overall business objectives stated in the strategic plan. 
2Making the internal audit plan fit better with the strategic plan may not have an effect on management's approval. 
Recommending improvements to the strategic plan is not the primary purpose of the CAE's review 
The importance of the internal audit function depends on the authority granted to it by the board and senior management 
491
In assessing organizational risk in a manufacturing environment, which of the following would
have the most long-range impact on the organization?

Production scheduling.
Inventory policy
Product quality
Advertising budget.
3
Question Explanation
7
Production scheduling is most likely to have short-term effects.
. An inventory policy is most likely to have short-term effects.
Product quality has the greatest long-term effect on organizational risk. A decline in product quality poses grave risks to the success (and even the existence) of the organization. Loss of customer satisfaction because of poor quality results in a decline in competitiveness in the organization's markets. 
An advertising budget may be for an annual or shorter period. Thus, the effect of ineffective or underfunded advertising is more readily reversed than poor quality 
492
A chief audit executive most likely uses risk assessment for audit planning because it provides
A systematic process for assessing and integrating professional judgment about probable adverse conditions. 
A listing of potentially adverse effects on the organization.
A list of auditable activities in the organization.
The probability that an event or action may adversely affect the organization.
1
Question Explanation
7
 The chief audit executive must establish risk-based plans to determine the priorities of the internal audit activity, consistent with the organization's goals (Standard 20 l0). The audit plan is prepared based on (I) the audit universe, (2) input from senior management and the board, and (3) an assessment of risk and exposures (PA 2010- I). 
A listing of potentially adverse effects might convince the CAE of the need for risk assessment. But this process is not itself a risk assessment. 
A list of auditable activities is used in the risk assessment process but is not the rationale for using risk assessment 
. The probability that an event or action may adversely affect the organization is one definition of risk. 
493
Gleim #: 7.1.23 - Source: CIA 1195 III-3
A service company is currently experiencing a significant downsizing and process
reengineering. Its board of directors has redefined the business goals and established initiatives
using in-house developed technology to meet these goals. As a result, a more decentralized
approach has been adopted to run the business functions by empowering the business branch
managers to make decisions and perform functions traditionally done at a higher level.
The internal auditing staff is made up of the director, two managers, and five staff auditors, all
with financial background. In the past, the primary focus of successful audit activities has been
the service branches and the six regional division headquarters that support the branches. These
division headquarters are the primary targets for possible elimination. The support functions,
such as human resources, accounting, and purchasing, will be brought into the national
headquarters, and technology will be enhanced to enable and augment these operations.
Assuming that total available resources remain the same, what activities should the internal
audit activity perform to best serve the organization?

Decrease engagement time in systems development
Increase engagement time in service branches.
Increase engagement time in functions being centralized.
Continue the allocation of engagement time as before
3
Question Explanation
7
Major technology changes require that the engagement time devoted to systems development be increased.
 Given the major changes in other areas, limited IAA resources most likely must be shifted away from their primary focus on the service branches. 
 Matters to be considered in establishing engagement work schedule priorities include changes in the organization's business, operations, programs, systems, and controls (PA 2010- 1). For this service organization, major changes include decentralization of operations and centralization of support functions. These changes are occurring concurrently with the reengineering of business processes and the in-house development of technology. Accordingly, the IAA should increase engagement time in functions being centralized and in technology development. The CAE uses risk models to prioritize engagements. Most such models are based on risk factors, for example, the degree of change or stability, timing and results of the last audit engagement, and complexity (PA 2010- 1). Thus, the relevant risk factors require a reallocation of limited audit resources 
Major changes in the business, operations, programs, systems, and controls also require changes by the IAA. 
494
Gleim #: 7.1.23 - Source: CIA 1195 III-3
A service company is currently experiencing a significant downsizing and process
reengineering. Its board of directors has redefined the business goals and established initiatives
using in-house developed technology to meet these goals. As a result, a more decentralized
approach has been adopted to run the business functions by empowering the business branch
managers to make decisions and perform functions traditionally done at a higher level.
The internal auditing staff is made up of the director, two managers, and five staff auditors, all
with financial background. In the past, the primary focus of successful audit activities has been
the service branches and the six regional division headquarters that support the branches. These
division headquarters are the primary targets for possible elimination. The support functions,
such as human resources, accounting, and purchasing, will be brought into the national
headquarters, and technology will be enhanced to enable and augment these operations.
Assuming that total available resources remain the same, what activities should the internal
audit activity perform to best serve the organization?

Production A.
Production C
Purchasing.
Marketing.
1
Question Explanation
7
. An operational engagement includes reviewing the activities, systems, and controls within an organization to reach efficiency, effectiveness, economic, or other goals. A department that is causing bottlenecks needs an operational audit to aid in determining the cause of the bottlenecks and correcting the problem. 
 The production department C appears to be operating efficiently and effectively. 
 The purchasing department appears to be operating efficiently and effectively 
The marketing department appears to be operating efficiently and effectively. The information relayed by the anonymous phone call is not relevant to the operating efficiency of the department. 
495

based on the following factors: the engagement&quot;s ability to reduce risk to the organization, the
engagement&quot;s ability to save the organization money, and the extent of change in the area since
the last engagement. The CAE has scored the engagements for each factor from low to high,
assigned points, and calculated an overall ranking. The results are shown below with the points
in parentheses:

Risk                 Cost
 Audit       Reduction          Savings           Changes
I          High (3)            Medium (2)      Low (I)
2          High (3)            Low (I)            High (3)
3          Low (I)            High (3)           Medium (2)
4          Medium (2)      Medium (2)      High (3)
What is the chief audit executive&quot;s most logical definition of risk of loss to be used in selecting
engagement clients?

Amount of risk exposure times the probability of loss
Amount of annual costs in a department.
C.	Probability of loss.
Amount of assets in a department
1
Question Explanation
7
The CAE prepares the internal audit activity's audit plan based on the audit universe, input from senior management and the board, and an assessment of risk and exposures affecting the organization (PA 2010- I). Risk is the uncertainty of the occurrence of an event that could affect the achievement of the organization's objectives. It is measured in terms of consequences and likelihood (Glossary appended to the Standards). Thus, risk of loss is most logically defined as an expected value. It equals the amount at risk times the probability of loss. 
The amount of costs in a department is not necessarily the
Answer Three Explanation
Answer Four Explanation
496
Which of the following statements is false regarding risk assessment as the term is used in
internal auditing?

Risk assessment is a judgmental process of assigning monetary amounts to the perceived level of risk found in an activity being evaluated. These amounts allow a chief audit executive to select the engagement clients most likely to result in identifiable savings. 
The chief audit executive should incorporate information from a variety of sources into the risk assessment process, including discussions with the board, management, external auditors, review of regulations, and analysis of financial/operating data. 
Risk assessment is a systematic process of assessing and integrating professional judgments about events that could affect the achievement of organizational objectives. It provides a means of organizing an engagement work schedule. 
As a result of an engagement or preliminary survey, the chief audit executive may revise the level of assessed risk of an engagement client at any time, making appropriate adjustments to the work schedule 
1
Question Explanation
7
The nature of work of the IAA is to evaluate and contribute to the improvement of governance, risk management, and control processes using a systematic and disciplined approach (Standard 21 00). Accordingly, the CAE must establish risk- based plans to determine the priorities of the IAA, consistent with the organization's goals (Standard 201 O). These plans are reflected in engagement work schedules based on, among other things, an assessment of risk priority and exposure. Priorities are decisions for applying resources based on the significance of risk and exposure. A variety of risk models exist to assist the CAE. Most risk models use risk factors, such as impact, likelihood, materiality, asset liquidity, management competence, quality of and adherence to internal controls, degree of change or stability, timing and results of last audit engagement, complexity, and employee and government relations (PA 2010- I). Consequently, risk assessment is not a rigid process that can always be made in specific financial terms. 
Internal auditors are expected to identify and evaluate significant risk exposures in the normal course of their duties. Thus, they not only use risk analysis to plan engagements but also to assist management and the board by examining, evaluating, reporting, and recommending improvements on the adequacy and effectiveness of the management's risk processes (PA 21 00-3). For these purposes, the CAE should incorporate information from a variety of sources into the risk assessment process. The Standards place no limit on such sources. 
 An engagement work schedule is based on a risk assessment, undertaken at least annually. 
Risk assessments may be revised on the basis of new information. 
497
Risk modeling or risk analysis is often used in conjunction with development of long-range
engagement work schedules. The key input in the evaluation of risk is

Previous engagement results.
Management concerns and preferences
Specific requirements of professional standards.
Judgment of the internal auditors.
4
Question Explanation
7
The informed judgment of the internal auditor is still required to assess the magnitude of risk indicated by previous engagement results. 
o assess the risk posed by management concerns, informed judgment of the internal auditor is required. 
Professional standards do not specify the basic inputs for a risk analysis. 
atters to be considered in establishing engagement work schedule priorities should include the dates and results of the last engagement; updated assessments of risks and effectiveness of risk management and control processes; requests by senior management, the audit committee, and the governing body; current issues relating to organizational governance; major changes in the enterprise's business, operations, programs, systems, and controls; opportunities to achieve operating benefits; and changes to and capabilities of the internal auditing staff. Risk is concerned with the probability rather than the certainty of loss. Assessing the risk of an activity entails analysis of numerous factors, estimation of probabilities and amounts of potential losses, and an appraisal of the costs and benefits of risk reduction. Consequently, in assessing the magnitude of risk associated with any factor in a risk model, informed judgment by the internal auditor is required. 
498
Risk assessment is a systematic process for assessing and integrating professional judgments
about probable adverse conditions or events. Which of the following statements reflects the
appropriate action for the chief audit executive to take?

The CAE should generally assign engagement priorities to activities with higher risks.
The CAE should restrict the number of sources of information used in the risk assessment process. 
Work schedule priorities should be established to lead the CAE in the risk assessment process 
The risk assessment process should be conducted at least every three to five years.
1
Question Explanation
7
. The nature of work of the IAA is to evaluate and contribute to the improvement of governance, risk management, and control processes using a systematic and disciplined approach (Standard 2100). Accordingly, the CAE must establish risk-based plans to determine the priorities of the IAA, consistent with the organization's goals (Standard 2010). These plans are reflected in engagement work schedules based on, among other things, an assessment of risk priority and exposure. Priorities are decisions for applying resources based on the significance of risk and exposure. A variety of risk models exist to assist the CAE. Most risk models use risk factors, such as impact, likelihood, materiality, asset liquidity, management competence, quality of and adherence to internal controls, degree of change or stability, timing and results of last audit engagement, complexity, and employee and government relations (PA 2010- 1). Furthermore, the risk assessment process should be undertaken at least annually. 
Internal auditors are expected to identify and evaluate significant risk exposures in the normal course of their duties. Thus, they not only use risk analysis to plan engagements but also to assist management and the board by examining, evaluating, reporting, and recommending improvements on the adequacy and effectiveness of the management's risk processes. For these purposes, the CAE should incorporate information from a variety of sources into the risk assessment process. The Standards place no limit on such sources. 
The risk assessment process should be used to determine work schedule priorities. 
 The risk assessment should be undertaken at least every year.
499
The chief audit executive for a retail merchandise sales organization is considering engagement
assignments for inclusion in the work schedule for the upcoming year. The following areas
have not been evaluated recently and there are no known reasons that they should be given
immediate attention. If resources are scarce, which project should be given priority?

Corporate code of ethics and conflict of interest policy.
Cash management and credit policy.
Employee time reporting system
Budget preparation and forecasts.
2
Question Explanation
7
Cash and credit policy has a greater risk of loss
Among other things, matters to be considered in establishing engagement work schedule priorities should include updated assessments of risks and effectiveness of risk management and control processes. Of the areas listed, cash management and credit policy in a retail merchandise sales organization would likely rank the highest in financial exposure and risk of potential loss. 
Cash and credit policy has a greater risk of loss
Cash and credit policy has a greater risk of loss.
500
The chief audit executive of a manufacturer is updating the long-range engagement work
schedule. There are several possible assignments that can fill a given time spot. Information on
potential monetary exposure and key internal controls has been gathered. Based on perceived
risk, select the assignment of greatest merit

Precious metals inventory - carrying amount, US $1,000,000; separately stored, but access not restricted 
Branch office petty cash - ledger amount, US $50,000; 10 branch offices, equal amounts; replenishment of accounts requires three separate approvals 
C.	Sales force travel expenses - budget, US $1,000,000; 50 sales people; all expenditures over US $25 must be receipted. 
D.	Expendable tools inventory - carrying amount, US $500,000; issued by tool crib attendant upon receipt of authorization form. 
1
Question Explanation
7
The IAA should assist the organization by identifying and evaluating significant exposures to risk and contributing to the improvement of risk management and control processes. Among the many considerations in judging an item's risk are the ease with which it can be converted to cash, its accessibility, and its monetary value. The precious metals inventory should receive special emphasis because of its high inherent risk. The inventory can be easily converted to cash, access is not restricted, and its monetary value is relatively high 
 The monetary exposure of petty cash is much smaller than for the other proposed engagements, and the related controls are very stringent. 
 Although the monetary value of the sales force travel expense is identical to that of the precious metal inventory, the exposure is divided among 50 people, and the receipting requirement provides substantial safety against false claims 
The expendable tools inventory is subject to adequate control.
501

The chief audit executive of an organization has developed a plan that includes a detailed
schedule of engagements to be performed during the coming year, an estimate of the time
required for each engagement, and the approximate starting date of each engagement. The
scheduling of specific engagements was based upon the time elapsed since the last engagement
in each area. The plan is inadequate because it fails to

Cite authoritative support for such a plan.
Consider factors such as risk and effectiveness of risk management processes.
State whether all internal audit activity resources had been committed to the plan
Seek senior management approval of the plan.
2
Question Explanation
7
The Standards state no requirement to cite authoritative support for the plan. 
 Matters to be considered in establishing engagement work schedule priorities should include the dates and results of the last engagement; updated assessments of risks and effectiveness of risk management and control processes; requests by senior management, the audit committee, and the governing body; current issues relating to organizational governance; changes in the organization's business, operations, programs, systems, and controls; opportunities to achieve operating benefits; and changes to and capabilities of the internal auditing staff. 
The plan should be flexible in the event of unanticipated needs for IAA resources. 
 Activity reports should be submitted to senior management and to the board at least annually (PA 2060- 1), but the Standards state no requirement for seeking approval of the annual engagement work schedule 
502
Which of the following is least likely to be included in the engagement work schedule of the
internal audit activity?

To be consistent with its charter.
To be capable of being accomplished.
To include a list of activities to be performed.
To include the basics of the engagement work program.
4
Question Explanation
7
Consistency with the charter is necessary
Goals should be capable of being accomplished.
An engagement work schedule includes the activities to be performed. 
The chief audit executive must establish risk-based plans to determine the priorities of the internal audit activity, consistent with the organization's goals (Standard 2010). These plans should be consistent with the IAA's charter and with the goals of the organization. Moreover, the goals of the IAA should be capable of being accomplished within specified operating plans and budgets and, to the extent possible, should be measurable. They should be accompanied by measurement criteria and targeted dates of accomplishment. Furthermore, engagement work schedules should include (a) what activities are to be performed; (b) when they will be performed; and (c) the estimated time required, taking into account the scope of the engagement work planned and the nature and extent of related work performed by others. The basics of an engagement program for a specific engagement are not included in the long-range plans of the IAA. A work program documents the engagement procedures selected in advance of performing the engagement. However, it is normally prepared after background information has been gathered and a survey has been conducted. 
503
The internal audit activity of a large organization has established its operating plan and budget
for the coming year. The operating plan is restricted to the following categories: a prioritized
listing of all engagements, staffing, a detailed expense budget, and the commencement date of
each engagement. Which of the following best describes the major deficiency of this operating
plan?

Requests by management for special projects are not considered
Opportunities to achieve operating benefits are ignored
Measurability criteria and targeted dates of completion are not provided.
Knowledge, skills, and other competencies required to perform work are ignored.
3
Question Explanation
7
Requests by management would have been considered in establishing engagement work schedule priorities. 
Opportunities to achieve operating benefits would have been considered in establishing engagement work schedule priorities. 
 The goals of the internal audit activity should be capable of accomplishment within given operating plans and budgets and should be measurable to the extent possible. They should be accompanied by measurement criteria and targeted dates of accomplishment. 
The appropriate resources, including staffing, needed to achieve engagement objectives would have been considered in establishing engagement work schedule priorities. Staff members must possess the knowledge, skills, and other competencies needed to perform their responsibilities (Standard 121 O). 
504
Which of the following is a valid reason for an internal auditing engagement involving a
payroll department to receive priority over a purchasing department engagement?

Which of the following is a valid reason for an internal auditing engagement involving a payroll department to receive priority over a purchasing department engagement? 
The purchasing department engagement will require more time to perform.
The payroll department's relative risk and exposure are greater.
The purchasing department recently restructured its major operations.
3
Question Explanation
7
This request is not as compelling a reason for granting priority as the greater assessed risk of another engagement client. 
 The time required may not correlate with risk and other factors that determine the IAA' s priorities. 
The CAE establishes risk-based plans to determine the priorities of the IAA, consistent with the organization's goals (Standard 201 O). Matters to be considered in establishing engagement work schedule priorities should include (I) the dates and results of the last engagement; (2) updated assessments of risks and effectiveness of risk management and control processes; (3) requests by senior management, the audit committee, and the governing body; (4) regulatory requirements; (5) current issues relating to organizational governance; (6) major changes in the enterprise's business, operations, programs, systems, and controls; (7) opportunities to achieve operating benefits; and (8) changes to and capabilities of the engagement staff. 
The restructuring is a reason for giving priority to the purchasing department. 
505
An approved audit plan for the internal audit activity is an essential part of
Scheduling support for the external audit.
Establishing standards for employee performance.
Providing senior management with information about the quality of the internal audit activity's performance. 
Planning for the internal audit activity.
4
Question Explanation
7
 The engagement work schedule is not essential to proper support for the external audit. 
Management sets operating standards.
Performance reporting should be relative to the most recently approved plan to inform senior management and the board of (I) significant deviations from the approved audit plan, staffing plans, and financial budgets; (2) reasons for the deviations; and (3) action needed or taken (PA 2060- I). Also, Standard 1320 states that the CAE must communicate the results of the quality assurance and improvement program to senior management and the board (PA 2060- I). 
The audit plan should include the activities to be performed, when they will be performed, and the estimated time required, considering the scope of the engagement work planned and the nature and extent of related work performed by others. This plan permits determination of staffing plans and financial budgets and is a basis for the presentation of reports. 
506
Management has just implemented a policy that every department must downsize by
immediately cutting 10% of each department&quot;s staff and budget. The chief audit executive has
reacted to the organization&quot;s recent plans for &quot;downsizing&quot; (reducing the size of staff across the
board) by notifying the internal audit managers that the time allocated for all jobs must be cut
by 10%. Which of the following statements regarding the CAE&quot;s action and potential internal
audit manager&quot;s action is true?

The CAE's action should result in approximately the same amount of risk coverage as the previous engagement work schedule but reduced by 100/o. 
Individual internal audit managers can attain 90% of the previously defined engagement coverage by uniformly cutting engagement procedures by 100/o. 
The CAE should have re-prioritized risks and eliminated specific engagements rather than cutting 10% across the board. 
All of the answers are correct.
3
Question Explanation
7
 Reducing the time allocation for all jobs by 10% does not necessarily mean that the risks addressed will be reduced proportionately. The CAE should reprioritize the engagement work schedule to ensure the optimal mitigation of risk with the more limited resources. 
 A uniform 10% reduction in engagement procedures or scope may result in gathering insufficient information and failure to meet engagement objectives for all projects. 
The CAE must establish risk-based plans to determine the priorities of the IAA, consistent with the organization's goals (Standard 2010). Thus, engagement work schedules should be based on, among other things, an assessment of risk priority and exposure. Prioritizing is needed to make decisions for applying resources based on the significance of risk and exposure (PA 2010-1). Hence, when the IAA's resources are reduced, the CAE should allocate the remaining resources in the manner that best meets its goals. For this purpose, risk priorities must be reevaluated. Eliminating some projects may be preferable to reducing the effort devoted to all projects. 
 Only one of the responses is true.
507
Updating the audit universe is useful in developing the internal audit plan. The audit universe
Consists of all possible audits.
Reflects only past organizational strategies
May not overlap with the organization's strategic plan.
Is typically updated every 5 years.
1
Question Explanation
7
Developing or updating the audit universe is useful in developing the internal audit plan. The audit universe is a list of all possible audits that could be performed. It may include elements of the organization's strategic plan and is influenced by (I) the environment in which the organization operates and (2) the results of the risk management process. (PA 2010- I). 
The audit universe needs to reflect the most current strategies. 
The audit universe may include elements of the strategic plan and therefore reflect overall business objectives.  
The audit universe needs to be updated at least annually
508
Which of the following is not reflected in an organization&quot;s audit universe?
The organization's overall attitude toward risk.
The degree of difficulty in achieving planned objectives.
Overall business plan objectives.
The internal audit activity's conformance with the Standards..
4
Question Explanation
7
The organization's overall attitude toward risk is included in the strategic plan, components of which are part of the audit universe. 
The degree of difficulty in achieving planned objectives is included in the strategic plan, components of which are part of the audit univers 
Overall business plan objectives are included in the strategic plan, components of which are part of the audit universe. 
 The audit universe is a list of all possible audits. It can include components from the organization's strategic plan. By incorporating components of the organization's strategic plan, the audit universe will consider and reflect the overall business plan objectives. Strategic plans also are likely to reflect the organization's attitude toward risk and the degree of difficulty in achieving planned objectives (PA 2010- l). The internal audit activity' s conformance with the Standards is the object of ongoing and periodic internal assessments and periodic external assessments. 
509
The chief audit executive develops a risk-based plan after updating the audit universe. The item
least likely to be part of the audit universe is

Major programs.
Cost, profit, and investment centers.
A component of the organization's strategic plan.
The minutes from the last board of directors meeting.
3
Question Explanation
7
 Major programs are activities of the organization and are thus part of the audit universe. 
Cost, profit, and investment centers are parts of the organization and are thus part of the audit universe. 
 The audit universe can include components from the organization's strategic plan. By incorporating components of the organization's strategic plan, the audit universe will consider and reflect the overall business' objectives. 
. The chief audit executive is responsible for developing a risk'based plan. The chief audit executive takes into account the organization' s risk management framework, including using risk tolerances levels set by management for the different activities or parts of the organization. If a framework does not exist, the chief audit executive uses his/her own judgment of risks after consultation with senior management and the board (Interpretation of Standard 20 I O). In developing the internal audit activity's audit plan, many chief audit executives (CAEs) find it useful to first develop or update the audit universe. The audit universe is a list of all the possible audits that could be performed. The CAE may obtain input on the audit universe from senior management and the board. 
510
Risk is measured in terms of significance and likelihood. Excessive cash disbursements due to
duplicate payments to vendors are events that most likely are placed in which area of a risk
map?

Low significance, low likelihood.
Low significance, high likelihood.
High significance, medium likelihood.
High significance, low likelihood.
3
Question Explanation
7
Duplicate payments to vendors tend to have medium to high impact and more than a low likelihood. 
. Duplicate payments to vendors tend to have medium to high impact and more than a low likelihood. 
 Duplicate payments to vendors are considered high significance because they result in a material loss of cash if undetected. The likelihood is medium because they are a common irregularity. However, there is most often a good chance (not guaranteed) that a vendor will detect the error and correct it 
The likelihood is more than low (rare or unlikely).
511
Which internal audit planning tool is general in nature and is used to ensure adequate
engagement coverage over time?

The audit plan.
The engagement work program.
The internal audit activity' s budget.
The internal audit activity's charter
1
Question Explanation
7
The CAE should establish risk-based plans to determine the priorities of the IAA. These plans should be consistent with the goals of the organization (Standard 2010). The CAE submits annually to senior management and the board for review and approval a summary of the (1) internal audit plan, (2) work schedules, (3) staffing plan, and (4) financial budgets (PA 2020- 1). Thus, the planning process involves establishing work schedules. 
 The engagement work program is limited in scope to a particular project. 
The IAA's budget may be used to justify a head count, but it is not used to ensure adequate engagement coverage over time 
The charter is not an engagement planning tool.
512
Which of the following is an appropriate responsibility of an audit committee?
Performing a review of the procurement function of the organization.
Reviewing the internal audit activity's engagement work schedule submitted by the chief audit executive. 
Reviewing the engagement records of the public accounting firm to determine the firm's competence. 
Recommending the assignment of specific internal audit staff members for specific engagements. 
2
Question Explanation
7
 Reviewing the procurement function of the organization requires detailed technical ability.  
  The audit committee consists of outside members of the board of directors (who should be independent of management). Regular communication with this committee helps assure independence and provides a means for the directors and the IAA to keep each other informed. According to Standard 2020, the CAE must communicate the IAA's plans and resource requirements to senior management and the board for review and approval. Moreover, PA 2020- 1 states that the CAE annually will submit to senior management and the board for approval a summary of the (1) internal audit plan, (2) work schedule, (3) staffing plan, and (4) financial budget. 
Reviewing the IAA's engagement work schedule requires detailed technical ability.  
Specific assignments should be made by IAA management.
513
Who reviews and approves a summary of the internal audit plan?
Senior management and the board.
The audit committee and the board.
Senior management only.
The chief audit executive (CAE) only.
1
Question Explanation
7
The CAE must communicate the IAA's plans and resource requirements to senior management and the board for review and approval (Standard 2020). The CAE submits annually to senior management and the board a summary of the internal audit plan, work schedule, staffing plan, and financial budget (PA 2020- 1). 
The CAE also submits the internal audit plan to senior management. 
The CAE also submits the internal audit plan to the board.
The audit plan is submitted to senior management and the board.
514
As the chief audit executive, you have determined that the acquisition of some expensive, state-
of-.the-art software for paperless working paper files will be useful. Identify the preferred
method for presenting your request to senior management.

The effect of not obtaining the software.
Statement of need.
Comparison with other internal audit activities.
Evaluation of the software's technical specifications.
1
Question Explanation
7
The CAE must communicate the IAA's plans and resource requirements to senior management and the board for review and approval. The CAE also must communicate the effect of resource limitations (Standard 2020). 
The need must be weighed against the cost.
Other IAAs may have different cost-benefit relationships.
Specialists, not senior management, will perform this evaluation.
515
A chief audit executive&quot;s performance report should
List the material engagement observations of major engagements.
List uncorrected reported conditions.
Report the weekly activities of the individual internal auditors.
Compare engagements completed with engagements planned.
4
Question Explanation
7
A list of material engagement observations is not a performance report. 
A list of uncorrected reported conditions is not a performance report. 
A report of weekly activities is not a performance report.
The CAE reports on the IAA's performance relative to its plan (Standard 2060). Performance reporting should be relative to the most recently approved plan to inform senior management and the board of (I) significant deviations from the approved audit plan, staffing plans, and financial budgets; (2) reasons for the deviations; and (3) action needed or taken (PA 2060- I). Also, Standard 1320 states that the CAE must communicate the results of the quality assurance and improvement program to senior management and the board (PA 2060-I). Accordingly, these reports compare actual performance (e.g., completed engagements) with the IAA' s work schedules (e.g., planned engagements). 
516
The chief audit executive routinely reports to the board as part of the board meeting agenda
each quarter. Senior management has asked to review this presentation before each board
meeting so that any issues or questions can be discussed beforehand. The CAE needs to

Provide the report to senior management as requested and discuss any issues that may require action to be taken 
Withhold disclosure of the report to senior management because such matters are the sole province of the board. 
Disclose to the board only those matters in the report that pertain to expenditures and financial budgets of the internal audit activity. 
Provide information to senior management that pertains only to completed engagements and observations available in published engagement communications. 
1
Question Explanation
7
The chief audit executive must report periodically to senior management and the board on the internal audit activity's purpose, authority, responsibility, and performance relative to its plan. Reporting must also include significant risk exposures and control issues, including fraud risks, governance issues, and other matters needed or requested by senior management and the board (Standard 2060). The frequency and content of reporting are determined in discussion with senior management and the board and depend on the importance of the information to be communicated and the urgency of the related actions to be taken by senior management or the board (Interpretation of Standard 2060). 
Reports must be presented to senior management.
 The report is not restricted to expenditures and financial budgets. Information about significant deviations from the approved audit plan and staffing plans also is included 
The information need not be limited to completed engagements and observations available in published engagement communications. 
517
The best means for the internal audit activity to determine whether its goal of implementing
broader coverage of functional activities has been met is through
2
Accumulation of engagement observations by engagement client.
Comparison of the approved audit plan with actual engagement activity.
Surveys of management satisfaction with the internal audit activity.
Implementation of a quality assurance program.
2
Question Explanation
7
 The number of engagement observations is not an indicator of breadth or quality of work. 
Performance reporting should be relative to the most recently approved plan to inform senior management and the board of (I) significant deviations from the approved audit plan, staffing plans, and financial budgets; (2) reasons for the deviations; and (3) action needed or taken (PA 2060-I). Also, Standard 1320 states that the CAE must communicate the results of the quality assurance and improvement program to senior management and the board (PA 2060-I). 
Management satisfaction does not directly relate to the expressed goal (broader engagement coverage). 
Implementation of a quality assurance program has no bearing on the stated goal 
518
Which internal audit planning tool is general in nature and is used to ensure adequate
engagement coverage over time?

The audit plan.
The engagement work program.
The internal audit activity' s budget.
The internal audit activity's charter
1
Question Explanation
7
The CAE should establish risk-based plans to determine the priorities of the IAA. These plans should be consistent with the goals of the organization (Standard 2010). The CAE submits annually to senior management and the board for review and approval a summary of the (1) internal audit plan, (2) work schedules, (3) staffing plan, and (4) financial budgets (PA 2020- 1). Thus, the planning process involves establishing work schedules. 
 The engagement work program is limited in scope to a particular project. 
The IAA's budget may be used to justify a head count, but it is not used to ensure adequate engagement coverage over time 
The charter is not an engagement planning tool.
519
Which of the following is an appropriate responsibility of an audit committee?
Performing a review of the procurement function of the organization.
Reviewing the internal audit activity's engagement work schedule submitted by the chief audit executive. 
Reviewing the engagement records of the public accounting firm to determine the firm's competence. 
Recommending the assignment of specific internal audit staff members for specific engagements. 
2
Question Explanation
7
 Reviewing the procurement function of the organization requires detailed technical ability.  
  The audit committee consists of outside members of the board of directors (who should be independent of management). Regular communication with this committee helps assure independence and provides a means for the directors and the IAA to keep each other informed. According to Standard 2020, the CAE must communicate the IAA's plans and resource requirements to senior management and the board for review and approval. Moreover, PA 2020- 1 states that the CAE annually will submit to senior management and the board for approval a summary of the (1) internal audit plan, (2) work schedule, (3) staffing plan, and (4) financial budget. 
Reviewing the IAA's engagement work schedule requires detailed technical ability.  
Specific assignments should be made by IAA management.
520
Who reviews and approves a summary of the internal audit plan?
Senior management and the board.
The audit committee and the board.
Senior management only.
The chief audit executive (CAE) only.
1
Question Explanation
7
The CAE must communicate the IAA's plans and resource requirements to senior management and the board for review and approval (Standard 2020). The CAE submits annually to senior management and the board a summary of the internal audit plan, work schedule, staffing plan, and financial budget (PA 2020- 1). 
The CAE also submits the internal audit plan to senior management. 
The CAE also submits the internal audit plan to the board.
The audit plan is submitted to senior management and the board.
521
As the chief audit executive, you have determined that the acquisition of some expensive, state-
of-.the-art software for paperless working paper files will be useful. Identify the preferred
method for presenting your request to senior management.

The effect of not obtaining the software.
Statement of need.
Comparison with other internal audit activities.
Evaluation of the software's technical specifications.
1
Question Explanation
7
The CAE must communicate the IAA's plans and resource requirements to senior management and the board for review and approval. The CAE also must communicate the effect of resource limitations (Standard 2020). 
The need must be weighed against the cost.
Other IAAs may have different cost-benefit relationships.
Specialists, not senior management, will perform this evaluation.
522
A chief audit executive&quot;s performance report should
List the material engagement observations of major engagements.
List uncorrected reported conditions.
Report the weekly activities of the individual internal auditors.
Compare engagements completed with engagements planned.
4
Question Explanation
7
A list of material engagement observations is not a performance report. 
A list of uncorrected reported conditions is not a performance report. 
A report of weekly activities is not a performance report.
The CAE reports on the IAA's performance relative to its plan (Standard 2060). Performance reporting should be relative to the most recently approved plan to inform senior management and the board of (I) significant deviations from the approved audit plan, staffing plans, and financial budgets; (2) reasons for the deviations; and (3) action needed or taken (PA 2060- I). Also, Standard 1320 states that the CAE must communicate the results of the quality assurance and improvement program to senior management and the board (PA 2060-I). Accordingly, these reports compare actual performance (e.g., completed engagements) with the IAA' s work schedules (e.g., planned engagements). 
523
The chief audit executive routinely reports to the board as part of the board meeting agenda
each quarter. Senior management has asked to review this presentation before each board
meeting so that any issues or questions can be discussed beforehand. The CAE needs to

Provide the report to senior management as requested and discuss any issues that may require action to be taken 
Withhold disclosure of the report to senior management because such matters are the sole province of the board. 
Disclose to the board only those matters in the report that pertain to expenditures and financial budgets of the internal audit activity. 
Provide information to senior management that pertains only to completed engagements and observations available in published engagement communications. 
1
Question Explanation
7
The chief audit executive must report periodically to senior management and the board on the internal audit activity's purpose, authority, responsibility, and performance relative to its plan. Reporting must also include significant risk exposures and control issues, including fraud risks, governance issues, and other matters needed or requested by senior management and the board (Standard 2060). The frequency and content of reporting are determined in discussion with senior management and the board and depend on the importance of the information to be communicated and the urgency of the related actions to be taken by senior management or the board (Interpretation of Standard 2060). 
Reports must be presented to senior management.
 The report is not restricted to expenditures and financial budgets. Information about significant deviations from the approved audit plan and staffing plans also is included 
The information need not be limited to completed engagements and observations available in published engagement communications. 
524
The best means for the internal audit activity to determine whether its goal of implementing
broader coverage of functional activities has been met is through
2
Accumulation of engagement observations by engagement client.
Comparison of the approved audit plan with actual engagement activity.
Surveys of management satisfaction with the internal audit activity.
Implementation of a quality assurance program.
2
Question Explanation
7
 The number of engagement observations is not an indicator of breadth or quality of work. 
Performance reporting should be relative to the most recently approved plan to inform senior management and the board of (I) significant deviations from the approved audit plan, staffing plans, and financial budgets; (2) reasons for the deviations; and (3) action needed or taken (PA 2060-I). Also, Standard 1320 states that the CAE must communicate the results of the quality assurance and improvement program to senior management and the board (PA 2060-I). 
Management satisfaction does not directly relate to the expressed goal (broader engagement coverage). 
Implementation of a quality assurance program has no bearing on the stated goal 
525
Which of the following features of a large manufacturer&quot;s organizational structure is a control
weakness?

 The information systems department is headed by a vice president who reports directly to the president 
The chief financial officer is a vice president who reports to the chief executive officer
	The audit committee of the board consists of the chief executive officer, the chief financial officer, and a major shareholder. 
The controller and treasurer report to the chief financial officer.
3

7
This reporting relationship is a strength. It prevents the information systems operation from being dominated by a user. 
. It is a normal and appropriate reporting relationship.
The audit committee has a control function because of its oversight of internal as well as external auditing. It should be made up of directors who are independent of management. The authority and independence of the audit committee strengthen the position of the internal audit activity. 
It is a normal and appropriate reporting relationship.
526
The audit committee strengthens the control processes of an organization by
Assigning the internal audit activity responsibility for interaction with governmental agencies. 
Using the chief audit executive as a major resource in selecting the external auditors.
Following up on recommendations made by the chief audit executive.
Approving internal audit activity policies.
3
Question Explanation
7
A direct strengthening of controls does not result from this activity. 
  A direct strengthening of controls does not result from this activity. 
Internal auditors should have the support of senior management and the board (board of directors, audit committee, board of trustees of a nonprofit organization, etc.) to gain the cooperation of engagement clients and perform their work free from interference. At a minimum, the CAE needs to report to someone with sufficient authority to promote independence and ensure broad audit coverage, adequate consideration of engagement reports, and appropriate action on engagement recommendations (PA 1110- I). Moreover, among the audit committee's functions are to ensure that engagement results are given due consideration and to receive distributions of final engagement communications by the internal auditors (PA 2440- I). This enhancement of the position of internal auditing in tum strengthens control processes.  
A direct strengthening of controls does not result from this activity. 
527
An audit committee of the board of directors of an organization is being established. Which of
the following is normally a responsibility of the committee with regard to the internal audit
activity?

Approval of the selection and dismissal of the chief audit executive.
Development of the annual engagement work schedule.
Approval of engagement work programs
Determination of engagement observations appropriate for specific engagement communications. 
1
Question Explanation
7
 Independence is enhanced when the board concurs in the appointment or removal of the CAE (PA I I IO-I). The audit committee is a subcommittee of outside directors who are independent of management. The term 'board' includes the audit committee. 
Development of the annual engagement work schedule is an operational function of the CAE and the IAA staff. A summary of the (I) audit plan, (2) work schedule, (3) staffing plan, and (4) financial budget is submitted annually to senior management and the board (PA 2020- I). 
Approval of engagement work programs is a technical responsibility of the IAA staff. 
Answer Four Explanation
528
The review of findings of regulatory agencies is consistent with which audit committee
responsibility?

Reporting responsibilities.
Compliance.
Internal audit.
External audit
2
Question Explanation
7
Reporting responsibilities involve reporting to parties such as the board of directors, management, and the external auditor. 
The audit committee' s responsibility with regard to compliance involves reviewing the findings of any examinations by regulatory agencies and any auditor observations. Compliance relates to activities that must be addressed by laws and regulations. 
The internal audit involves the structure of the organization and the audit committee itself. 
The external audit function is concerned with the retention of the external auditor and communication with the external auditor. 
529
What part of an audit committee charter states that the audit committee is required to assist the
board of directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities?

The audit committee's purpose
The audit committee's authority.
The audit committee's composition
The audit committee's responsibilities.
1
Question Explanation
7
The IIA's sample charter for the audit committee includes the following purpose statement: To assist the board of directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for (I) the integrity of the company's financial statements, (2) the company's compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, (3) the independent auditor' s qualifications and independence require be included in the company's annual proxy statement. , and (4) the performance of the company's internal audit function and independent auditors. The audit committee will also prepare the The statement of purpose is typically the first paragraph of the audit committee charter because it outlines the audit committee's intended function  
 The audit committee' s authority is the scope of its power to oversee the external audit function, seek information, conduct investigations, etc 
The audit committee's composition addresses how many members it has and who will be appointed. 
Audit committee responsibilities involve functions related to the financial statements and internal control. 
530
An audit committee should be designed to enhance the independence of both the internal and
external auditing functions and to insulate these functions from undue management pressures.
Using this criterion, audit committees should be composed of

A rotating subcommittee of the board of directors or its equivalent.
Only members from the relevant outside regulatory agencies
Members from all important constituencies, specifically including representatives from banking, labor, regulatory agencies, shareholders, and officers 
Only external members of the board of directors or its equivalent
4
Question Explanation
7
The audit committee is not required to be rotated periodically.
Regulators ordinarily do not serve as directors.
Officers are not outside directors.
The audit committee of the board of directors should be composed entirely of outside directors. Outside directors are members of the board who are independent of internal management. Because the primary purpose of the audit committee is to promote the independence of the internal and external auditors from management, an audit committee composed of inside directors would be ineffective. 
531
The capabilities of individual staff members are key features in the effectiveness of an internal
audit activity. What is the primary consideration used when staffing an internal audit activity?

Background checks.
Job descriptions.
Continuing education.
Organizational orientation
2
Question Explanation
7
Background checks help ensure that statements made by prospective employees are accurate. However, they are not the primary requisite. 
The skills, capabilities, and technical knowledge of internal audit staff are to be appropriate for planned activities (PA 2030- 1). Properly formulated job descriptions provide a basis for identifying job qualifications (including training and experience). Hence, they facilitate recruiting human resources with the necessary attributes. 
Continuing education occurs after the proper people are hired.
A thorough orientation helps the new employee become productive more rapidly. However, it will not compensate for hiring the wrong person 
532
Having been given the task of developing a performance appraisal system for evaluating the
performance of a large internal audit staff, you should

Provide for an explanation of the appraisal criteria and methods at the time the appraisal results are discussed with the internal auditor 
Provide general information concerning the frequency of evaluations and the way evaluations will be performed without specifying their timing and uses. 
Provide primarily for the evaluation of criteria such as diligence, initiative, and tact.
Provide primarily for the evaluation of specific accomplishments directly related to the performance of the engagement work program. 
4
Question Explanation
7
The personnel whose performance is being appraised should be notified of the criteria and methods at the time they begin employment. 
The timing and uses of evaluations are important matters that should be clearly communicated. 
The criteria listed are traits, not accomplishments. Although traits are important, an evaluation system for internal audit performance should primarily focus on specific accomplishments. 
An effective evaluation system should be based on relevant, reliable, and objective measures closely related to actual job performance on specific projects (e.g., execution of the engagement work program). 
533
Which of the following aspects of evaluating the performance of staff members is considered to
be a violation of good human resources management techniques?

 The evaluator should justify very high and very low evaluations because of their impact on the employee. 
Evaluations should be made annually or more frequently to provide the employee feedback about competence 
The first evaluation should be made shortly after commencing work to serve as an early guide to the new employee 
	Because there are so many employees whose performance is completely satisfactory, it is preferable to use standard evaluation comments. 
4
Question Explanation
7
A very high or very low evaluation has behavioral and other implications that require special consideration. 
Evaluations should be made at least annually 
Prompt feedback serves to provide the employee with early advice as to the acceptability of performed work.  
The evaluation provides a basis for counseling subordinates on their strong and weak attributes, opportunities for advancement, and programs for self- improvement. It also is a basis for promotions, transfers, and compensation adjustments. Thus, individualized attention is clearly desirable. 
534
Which of the following statements most accurately reflects the chief audit executive&quot;s
responsibilities for internal audit resources?

The CAE is responsible for ensuring that audit coverage is based on the periodic skills assessment. 
The CAE is responsible for evaluating the detailed summary of audit resources presented by management to the board. 
The CAE is not responsible for such human resource functions as evaluation and development. 
The CAE is responsible for communicating resource needs to the board but has no explicit responsibility for administering the organization's compensation program. tions as evaluation and development. 
4
Question Explanation
7
The CAE has responsibility for ensuring that the skills assessment is driven by the needs of the audit coverage, not by the capabilities already present in the IAA. 
The CAE has responsibility for presenting a detailed summary of the status and adequacy of internal audit resources to the board 
The CAE has responsibility for considering human resource disciplines, such as succession planning and staff evaluation and development programs 
The CAE must ensure the sufficiency, appropriateness, and effective deployment of internal audit resources (Standard 2030). This includes effective communication of resource needs and status to senior management and the board (PA 2030-I). Responsibility for administering the organization's compensation program normally resides in the human resources (personnel) area 
535
In most organizations, the rapidly expanding scope of internal auditing responsibilities requires
continual training. What is the main purpose of such a training program?

To comply with continuing education requirements of professional organizations.
To use slack periods in engagement scheduling.
To help individuals to achieve personal career goals.
To achieve both individual and organizational goals.
4
Question Explanation
7
The CAE should establish a program for selecting and developing human resources, but compliance with continuing education requirements of professional organizations is not the primary purpose. 
 Training can be conducted during slack periods, but this is not the primary objective. 
Both personal and IAA goals should be achieved.
By being informed and up to date, internal auditors are better prepared to reach their personal goals. In addition, IAA responsibilities are more readily discharged by auditors having the required knowledge, skills, and other competencies. 
536
The key factor in the success of an internal audit activity&quot;s human resources program is
An informal program for developing and counseling staff.
A compensation plan based on years of experience.
A well-developed set of selection criteria.
A program for recognizing the special interests of individual staff members.
3
Question Explanation
7
The human resources program should be formal.
The quality of the human resources is more significant than compensation. 
. Internal auditors should be qualified and competent. Because the selection of a superior staff is dependent on the ability to evaluate applicants, selection criteria must be well-developed. Appropriate questions and forms should be prepared in advance to evaluate, among other things, the applicant's technical qualifications, educational background, personal appearance, ability to communicate, maturity, persuasiveness, self-confidence, intelligence, motivation, and potential to contribute to the organization. 
 The quality of the human resources is more significant than special interests of the staff. 
537
What is the most appropriate preventive measure for staff communication problems with
engagement clients?

Provide staff with sufficient training to enhance communication skills
Avoid unnecessary communication with engagement clients.
Discuss communication problems with staff auditors.
Meet with engagement clients to resolve communication problems.
1
Question Explanation
7
auditors must be skilled in oral and written communications so that they can clearly and effectively convey such matters as engagement objectives, evaluations, conclusions, and recommendations (PA 1210- I). 
The issue is the quality rather than the quantity of communication.
Communication problems should be resolved through effective
Meeting with engagement clients will not resolve problems caused by poor staff communication skills. 
538
In selecting an instructional strategy for developing internal audit staff, a chief audit executive
begins by reviewing

Organizational objectives.
Learning content.
Learners' readiness.
Budget constraints.
1
Question Explanation
7
The chief audit executive must ensure that internal audit resources are appropriate, sufficient, and effectively deployed to achieve the approved plan (Standard 2030). The approved plan must be consistent with the goals of the organization 
The learning content cannot be prepared without first reviewing the organizational objectives  
Learners' readiness should be considered later in the program development process 
Budget constraints should be considered later in the process.
539
The internal audit activity has recently experienced the departure of two internal auditors who
cannot be immediately replaced due to budget constraints. Which of the following is the least
desirable option for efficiently completing future engagements, given this reduction in
resources?

A.	 Using self-assessment questionnaires to address audit objectives.
Employing information technology in audit planning, sampling, and documentation.
Eliminating consulting engagements from the engagement work schedule.
Filling vacancies with personnel from operating departments that are not being audited.
3
Question Explanation
7
Using self-assessment questionnaires are an efficient means of addressing the objectives of certain internal audits 
Use of technology is an appropriate means of achieving efficiencies in audit execution. 
The chief audit executive must ensure that internal audit resources are appropriate, sufficient, and effectively deployed to achieve the approved plan (Standard 2030). The audit schedule is reduced as a last resort once all other alternatives have been explored, including the request for additional resources. 
Using operating personnel with internal audit expertise and corporate experience is an appropriate way to enhance internal audit resources. 
540
When conducting a performance appraisal of an internal auditor who has been a below-average
performer, an inappropriate procedure is to

Notify the internal auditor of the upcoming appraisal several days in advance
B.	Use objective, impartial language.
C.	Use generalizations.
D.	Document the appraisal.
3
Question Explanation
7
This is an appropriate procedure when conducting a performance appraisal. 
  This is an appropriate procedure when conducting a performance appraisal 
 In a performance appraisal of a below''average performer, it is appropriate and advisable to notify the employee of the upcoming appraisal, use objective language, and document the appraisal. It is not appropriate to use generalizations when making a performance appraisal of a below''average performer. Rather, the evaluator must cite specific information and be prepared to support assertions with evidence. 
This is an appropriate procedure when conducting a performance appraisal. 
541
By comparing job descriptions with the qualifications and duties of the individuals currently
holding those jobs, a manager can

Complete the human resource planning cycle.
B.	Determine whether the organization is appropriately staffed
C.	Forecast future personnel needs.
D.	Determine which employees should be promoted.
2
Question Explanation
7
The human resource planning cycle refers to the entire process. Examining job descriptions is merely a part of the job analysis process. 
A job description summarizes the duties and qualifications required for a job. It is prepared based on a job analysis, which is a systematic procedure for observing work and determining what tasks should be accomplished to achieve organizational goals. By comparing the job description with the actual employees and their qualifications, a manager can determine whether the organization has placed appropriate individuals in jobs best suited to their abilities. 
A forecast of future needs requires knowledge of future plans and a projection of resource and staff requirements. 
To determine which employees should be promoted, a manager needs performance data. 
542
Which of the following items would not be an appropriate staffing issue?
Selecting qualified and competent individuals.
Providing a competitive selection of employee benefits.
Providing continuing educational opportunities for each internal auditor.
Appraising each internal auditor's performance at least annually.
2
Question Explanation
7
Staffing addresses the selection of qualified and competent individuals 
. A program for selecting and developing human resources should include provisions for developing written job descriptions for each level of the IAA's staff, selecting qualified and competent individuals, training and providing continuing educational opportunities for each internal auditor, appraising each internal auditor's performance at least annually, and providing counsel to internal auditors on their performance and professional development. Thus, a program for selecting and developing human resources does not address employee compensation. 
Staffing addresses the provision of continuing educational opportunities for internal auditors. 
Staffing addresses the annual appraisal of each internal auditor's performance 
543
Staff members should be afforded an appropriate means through which they can discuss
problems and receive updates regarding the internal audit activity&quot;s policies. The most
appropriate forum for this objective is

The internal audit activity's informal communication lines.
Internal memoranda.
Staff meetings.
Employee evaluation conferences
3
Question Explanation
7
Informal communication is not the most appropriate forum.
Memoranda are usually impersonal and do not afford a good opportunity for maximum exchange of ideas. 
Formal staff meetings provide the best opportunity for ensuring that issues are addressed timely and efficiently. In The Practice of Modern Internal Auditing, Sawyer states that one reason for staff meetings is to explain 'routine administrative matters, to teach new techniques, and even to let off steam.' For example, staff members should be able to raise questions about ineffective procedures, promotions, salaries, or other problems. 
The employee evaluation conference is not a timely place to discuss problems and receive updates. 
544
The most important reason for the chief audit executive to ensure that the internal audit
department has adequate and sufficient resources is to

Ensure that the function is adequately protected from outsourcing.
Demonstrate sufficient capability to meet the audit plan requirements.
Establish credibility with the audit committee and management.
Fulfill the need for effective succession planning.
2
Question Explanation
7
The decision to outsource the internal audit function is not primarily based on existing resources. 
Standard 2030 requires that internal audit resources be appropriate, sufficient, and effectively deployed to achieve the approved plan of engagements. 
 The amount of resources is not a significant factor in establishing credibility. 
Succession planning is not related to the amount of audit resources
545
The chief audit executive meets with the members of the internal audit activity at scheduled
staff meetings. Which of the following is the most appropriate function of such a staff
meeting?
he chief audit executive meets with the members of the internal audit activity at scheduled staff meetings. Which of the following is the most appropriate function of such a staff meeting?
Revising travel, promotion, and compensation policies.
Explaining administrative policies and obtaining suggestions from the staff.
Developing long-range training programs that will meet the staff s needs
3
Question Explanation
7
 Management of the IAA should develop engagement work schedules. 
Management of the IAA should revise travel, promotion, and compensation policies.  
In The Practice of Modern Internal Auditing, Sawyer states that one reason for staff meetings is to explain 'routine administrative matters, to teach new techniques, and even to let off steam.' For example, staff members should be able to raise questions about ineffective procedures, promotions, salaries, or other problems. 
Developing long-range training programs that will meet the staff s needs should be done by management of the IAA. 
546
Any program for selecting and developing the human resources of the internal audit activity
will fail unless compensation is adequate at all levels of responsibility. Policies concerning
compensation should

Link internal auditors' compensation to the pay for comparable positions in the controller's department. 
Provide for cost-of-living, longevity, and merit increases annually.	 
Be informal and as flexible as possible to allow the chief audit executive to respond to unusual situations.
Be clearly stated and based on evaluations of position requirements and individual performance. 
2
Question Explanation
7
No necessary correlation exists between the work of internal auditors and of the controller's staff 
. Increases need not necessarily be annual.
Formal, well-defined policies are preferable to avoid misunderstandings. 
Internal auditing job descriptions are important because, among
547
Which of the following is a necessary part of a program for selecting and developing internal
audit activity staff?

A.	 Specifying that an accounting degree is necessary for employment.
B.	Developing a written job description for each level of the staff.
C.	Counseling each member of the staff on career opportunities.
D.	Requiring a written examination prior to employment.
1
Question Explanation
7
An IAA may need nonaccounting specialists.
. The program for selecting and developing human resources should include (I) developing written job descriptions for each level of the IAA's staff, (2) selection of qualified and competent individuals, (3) providing training and continuing educational opportunities for each internal auditor, (4) appraising performance at least annually, and (5) counseling internal auditors on their performance and professional development.  
 Counseling must be provided regarding performance and professional development, not career opportunities. 
A written examination is often unnecessary.
548
The advantage attributed to the establishment of internal auditing field offices for work at
foreign locations is best described as
The possibility of increased objectivity of personnel assigned to a field office.
A reduction of travel time and related travel expense.
The increased ease of maintaining uniform organization-wide standards.
More contact with senior personnel leading to an increase in control.
2
Question Explanation
7




549
Although all the current members of an internal audit activity have good records of
performance, the manager is not sure if any of the members are ready to assume a management
role. Which of the following is an advantage of bringing in an outsider rather than promoting
from within?

Management training costs are reduced when a qualified outsider is hired
The manager can be sure that the new position will be filled by a competent employee.
Bringing in an outsider is a less expensive alternative than promoting from within.
The 'modeling' effect is strengthened by bringing in a new role model.
1
Question Explanation
7
Hiring an experienced manager reduces management training costs because the person has already been trained. 
The manager is relying on outside information to evaluate the candidate and cannot be certain the employee is competent until (s)he begins work. 
Hiring an outsider is usually more expensive than promoting from within. 
The 'modeling' effect occurs when employees see that deserving co-workers are promoted to better-paying, higher-status jobs. 
550
After implementing a new organization control, many managers consider multiple teaching
techniques for their subordinates. Which of the following provides the greatest chance of
successful knowledge retention for employees?

 On-'the-job training.
Classroom learning.
External seminars.
Self-study.
1
Question Explanation
7
On-'the-job training provides employees with first-hand experience with the new control. This will establish a thorough understanding of the control by means of an actual application, which will ultimately help overall retention. 



551
Numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting JAL Corp. have recently changed. The
management of JAL has asked the internal audit activity to perform an environmental audit to
be completed as soon as possible. The IAA currently is performing an operational audit. As a
result, the chief audit executive (CAE) must make difficult decisions about resource allocation.
Which of the following is the least significant issue in determining whether to reallocate audit
resources?

 The potential fraud discovered during the operational audit.
Potential cost to JAL for noncompliance with the new environmental laws and regulations. 
The knowledge, skills, and competencies of the internal audit staff.
The results from the prior financial audits.
4
Question Explanation
7
The potential fraud or other illegal actions discovered during the operational audit are relevant. Fraud always must be evaluated for its effect on achievement of organizational objectives. 
Potential consequences, such as fines, penalties, and legal action against JAL, may be material. 
The knowledge, skills, and competencies of the internal audit staff are crucial. Proficiency is an ethical obligation of internal auditors 
When determining resource allocation under time constraints, the auditor must consider all relevant factors. Relevant factors include (I) information about both the ongoing and new engagement; (2) the consequences of not completing either engagement in a timely manner; and (3) the knowledge, skills, and competencies of the internal audit staff. Information about other unrelated engagements, such as prior financial audits, is irrelevant. 
552
Which of the following is most essential for guiding the internal audit staff?




4
Question Explanation
7
Quality program assessments do not provide specific daily guidance to the staff with respect to performance standards. 
Position descriptions do not provide specific daily guidance to the staff with respect to performance standards.  
Performance appraisals do not provide specific daily guidance to the staff with respect to performance standards. 
 The chief audit executive must establish policies and procedures to guide the IAA (Standard 2040). The form and content of written policies and procedures are dependent upon the size and structure of the IAA and the complexity of its work (Interpretation). Formal administrative and technical manuals may not be needed by all IAAs. A small IAA may be managed informally. Its staff may be directed and controlled through daily, close supervision and memoranda. In a large IAA, more formal and comprehensive policies and procedures are essential to guide the staff in the execution of the internal audit plan (PA 2040- I). Quality program assessments, position descriptions, and performance appraisals do not provide specific daily guidance to the staff with respect to performance standards. 
553
In most cases, an internal audit activity should document policies and procedures to ensure the
consistency and quality of its work. The exception to this principle is directly related to

Departmentation.
Division of labor.
Size of the internal audit activity.
Authority.
3
Question Explanation
7
Departmentation can improve communications among team members, but sufficient direct supervision may be lacking if spans of control are large. 
Division of labor produces highly specialized individuals, but formalized guidance is necessary for newer employees if the IAA is large. 
Formal administrative and technical manuals may not be needed by all internal audit entities. A small IAA may be managed informally. Its staff may be directed and controlled through daily, close supervision and written memoranda. In a large IAA, more formal and comprehensive policies and procedures are essential to guide the 
Gleim CIA Test Prep: Part I: Internal Audit's Role in Governance, Risk, 
554
Policies and procedures must be established to guide the internal audit activity. Which of the
following statements is false with respect to this requirement?

The form and content of written policies and procedures depend on the size of the internal audit activity. 
All internal audit activities must have a detailed policies and procedures manual.
Formal administrative and technical manuals may not be needed by all internal audit activities. 
A small internal audit activity may be managed informally through close supervision and memoranda. 
2
Question Explanation
7
The form and content of policies and procedures depend on the size of the IAA. 
The form and content of policies and procedures depend on the size and structure of the IAA and the complexity of its work (Interpretation of Standard 2040). A small IAA may be managed informally (PA 2040- I).  
Formal administrative and technical manuals may not be needed by all IAAs.  
 A small IAA may be managed informally through close supervision and memos. 
555
Policies and procedures relative to managing the internal audit activity
Ensure compliance with its performance standards.
Give consideration to its structure and the complexity of the work performed.
Result in the execution of the internal audit plan.
Prescribe the format and distribution of engagement communications and the classification of engagement observations. 
2
Question Explanation
7
Engagements must be properly supervised to ensure objectives are achieved, quality is assured, and staff is developed (Standard 2340). Compliance with performance standards is a quality issue, and ensuring quality requires more than establishing policies and procedures. 
The CAE must establish policies and procedures to guide the IAA (Standard 2040). The form and content of policies and procedures depend on the size and structure of the IAA and the complexity of its work (Interpretation). 
. Whether policies and procedures are required depends on the
Gleim CIA Test Prep: Part I: Internal Audit's Role in Governance, Risk
556
The chief audit executive for a large decentralized organization has developed a manual
containing comprehensive detailed written procedures as a guide for the decentralized
engagement work groups, each of which has 20 to 30 internal auditors. The organization
recently acquired a small entity that has an internal audit activity consisting of a supervisor and
two staff personnel. Which of the following actions is the most practical in providing
administrative guidance for this new internal audit activity?

Select key procedures from the manual and use informal supervisory direction for other engagement management issues. 
Use informal supervisory direction for engagement management issues.
Use the already developed manual.
Adopt the administrative procedures being followed by the internal auditors of the acquired entity. 
1
Question Explanation
7
Orientation to acquaint the acquired entity's staff with the established environment should be through exposure to selected key procedures from the formal manual. The form and content of written policies and procedures should be appropriate to the size and structure of the IAA. Thus, a small IAA may be managed less formally, for example, through daily close supervision and written memoranda (PA 2040- l). 
The use of informal supervisory direction alone for new staff is inadequate. 
Complete reliance on the existing manual would require more formal management than is necessary for a small IAA. 
Management of the new internal auditing entity should not be inconsistent with the rest of the organization. 
557
Which of the following, though not appropriate for use with a large internal audit activity, is an
acceptable approach for managing a small internal audit activity?

Preparing comprehensive policies and procedures.
Writing detailed instructions and guidelines for each engagement area.
Using only daily, close supervision and written memoranda.
Developing technical manuals to guide performance.
3
Question Explanation
7
. Preparing comprehensive policies and procedures is more appropriate for managing a large IAA 
Writing detailed instructions and guidelines for each engagement area is more appropriate for managing a large IAA. 
The form and content of written policies and procedures should be appropriate to the size and structure of the IAA and the complexity of its work. A small IAA may be managed informally. Its staff may be directed and controlled through daily, 

558
Coordination of internal and external auditing can reduce the overall costs. Who is responsible
for actual coordination of internal and external auditing efforts?

Chief audit executive.
External auditor.
The board.
Management
1
Question Explanation
7
The CAE should share information and coordinate activities with other internal and external providers of relevant assurance and consulting services to ensure proper coverage and minimize duplication of efforts (Standard 2050). The CAE is responsible for actual coordination, and the board is responsible for oversight of the work of the external auditors, including coordination with the IAA. Coordination involves periodic meetings to discuss matters of mutual interest; access to each other's work programs and working papers; exchange of engagement communications and management letters; and common understanding of techniques, methods, and terminology (PA 2050- I). 
The external auditor is an interested party but not one that has direct responsibility for coordinating internal and external auditing efforts. 
The board has oversight responsibility, but the CAE is responsible for the actual coordination of internal and external auditing work. 
Management is an interested party but not one that has direct responsibility for coordinating internal and external auditing efforts. 
559
According to the Framework, which of the following are responsibilities of the chief audit
executive (CAE)?
 I. Coordinating activities with other providers of assurance and consulting services.
II.	. Understanding the work of external auditors.
III.	I. Providing sufficient information to the external auditors to permit them to understand the
internal auditors&quot; work.

land II only.
II and III only.
I and III only.
I, II, and III.
4
Question Explanation
7
Providing sufficient information to the external auditors to permit them to understand the internal auditors' work is a responsibility of the CAE when external auditors rely on the IAA's work. 
Coordinating activities with other providers of assurance and consulting services is a responsibility of the CAE.  
Understanding the work of external auditors is necessary whenever external auditors provide assurance about matters within the scope of the IAA.  
Organizations may use the work of external auditors to provide assurance related to activities within the scope of internal auditing. In these cases, the CAE takes the steps necessary to understand the work performed by the external auditors. Moreover, the external auditor may rely on the work of the IAA in performing their work. In this case, the CAE needs to provide sufficient information to enable external auditors to understand the internal auditor's techniques, methods, and terminology to facilitate reliance by external auditors on work performed. Also, the CAE is responsible for regular evaluations of the coordination between internal and external auditors. Such evaluations may include assessments of the overall efficiency and effectiveness of internal and external audit activities, including aggregate audit cost. The CAE communicates the results of these evaluations to senior management and the board, including relevant comments about the performance of external auditors (PA 2050- 1). 
560
In compliance with PA 2050- 1, a chief audit executive should include in regular evaluations of
internal and external audit activity an assessment of which of the following?

Only external audit cost.
Efficiency of only internal audit activity.
Aggregate audit cost.
Effectiveness of only external audit activity.
3
Question Explanation
7
Evaluation of internal audit cost is also included.
The efficiency of external audit activity is also included.
The CAE is responsible for regular evaluations of the coordination between internal and external auditors. Such evaluations may also include assessments of  the          overall efficiency and effectiveness of internal and external audit activities, including  aggregate audit cost (PA 2050-1).
effectiveness of internal audit activity is also included.
561
Coordinating internal and external audit activity can increase efficiency by using which of the
following?
 I. Similar techniques
II.	. Similar methods
III.	I. Similar terminology

I only.
land III only.
I and II only.
I, II, and III.
4
Question Explanation
7
Similar methods and terminology also increase efficiency.
Similar methods also increase efficiency.
Similar terminology also increases efficiency.
It may be efficient for internal and external auditors to use similar techniques, methods, and terminology to coordinate their work effectively and to rely on the work of one another (PA 2050- I). 
562
Gleim #: 7.7.108 - Source: Publisher
Board.
Chief audit executive.
Internal auditors.
External auditors.
2
Question Explanation
7
The board oversees but is not actually responsible for the coordination. 
Oversight of the work of external auditors, including coordination with the internal audit activity, is the responsibility of the board. Coordination of internal and external audit work is the responsibility of the chief audit executive (CAE). The CAE obtains the support of the board to coordinate audit work effectively. 
 Internal auditors carry out the coordinated directions from the CAE. 
External auditors perform their work in coordination with information provided by the CAE. 
563
Written agreements for external audit engagements are to be signed by the
Chief audit executive and internal auditors.
Service provider and engagement client.
Audit committee and chief audit executive.
Board of directors and chief audit executive.
2
Question Explanation
7
The CAE and internal auditors represent the engagement client. The agreement should be signed by representatives of the engagement client and the service provider. 
PA 2050-2 addresses the acquisition of external audit services. It states that service arrangements for external auditing should be documented in a written agreement signed by both the service provider and the engagement client. 
The audit committee and the CAE represent the engagement client. The agreement should be signed by representatives of the engagement client and the service provider. 
The board of directors and the CAE represent the engagement client. The agreement should be signed by representatives of the engagement client and the service provider. 
564
A quality assurance and improvement program (QAIP) of an internal audit activity provides
reasonable assurance that internal auditing work is performed in accordance with its charter.
Which of the following are designed to provide feedback on the effectiveness of an internal
audit activity?
 I. Proper supervision
II.	. Proper training
III.	I. Internal reviews
IV.	 External reviews

I, II, and III only.
II, III, and IV only.
I, III, and IV only.
I, II, III, and IV.
3
Question Explanation
7
Proper training is a feedforward, not a feedback, control
Proper training is a feedforward, not a feedback, control
A QAIP is designed to provide reasonable assurance to the various stakeholders of the IAA that it (I) performs in accordance with its charter, (2) operates effectively and efficiently, and (3) is perceived by the stakeholders as adding value and improving operations. The program includes appropriate supervision, periodic internal assessment and ongoing monitoring of quality assurance, and periodic external assessments (PA 1300-I). 
Proper training is a feedforward, not a feedback, control
565
Policies and procedures should be established to guide the internal audit activity. Which of the
following statements is false with respect to this requirement?

The form and content of written policies and procedures should be appropriate to the size of the internal audit activity. 
All internal auditing entities should have a detailed policies and procedures manual.
Formal administrative and technical manuals may not be needed by all internal auditing entities. 
A small internal audit activity may be managed informally through close supervision and written memos. 
2
Question Explanation
7
The form and content of written policies and procedures should be appropriate to the size of the IAA. 
The form and content of written policies and procedures should be appropriate to the size and structure of the IAA and the complexity of its work. A small IAA may be managed informally (PA 2040- 1). 
 Formal administrative and technical manuals may not be needed by all IAAs. 
A small IAA may be managed informally through close supervision and written memos. 
566
Who has primary responsibility for providing information to the board on the professional and
organizational benefits of coordinating internal audit activities with those of other providers of
similar services?

The external auditor.
The chief audit executive.
The chief executive officer.
Each assurance and consulting function.
2
Question Explanation
7
The CAE is responsible for ensuring that the IAA's work maximizes the benefits achievable from coordination with other assurance and consulting activities. Comments on this function should always form part of any activity reports by the CAE, not the external auditor, to the board. 
The chief audit executive should share information and coordinate activities with other internal and external providers of assurance and consulting services to ensure proper coverage and minimize duplication of efforts (Standard 2050). The CAE also is responsible for regular evaluations of the coordination between internal and external auditors. Such evaluations may include assessments of the overall efficiency and effectiveness of internal and external audit activities, including aggregate audit cost. The CAE communicates the results of these evaluations to senior management and the board, including relevant comments about the performance of external auditors (PA 2050- 1).  
 The CEO normally is not responsible for planning, work, and coordination related to internal audit assurance and consulting engagements or coordination with other assurance and consulting activities. 
Not all other assurance and consulting activities are organizationally responsible to the board for their work. Moreover, they may not have the opportunity to report information directly to the board. 
567
Which of the following is a false statement about the relationship between internal auditors and
external auditors?

Oversight of the work of external auditors is the responsibility of the chief audit executive. 
Sufficient meetings are scheduled between internal and external auditors to ensure timely and efficient completion of the work. 
Internal and external auditors may exchange engagement communications and management letters. 
Internal auditors may provide engagement work programs and working papers to external auditors. 
1
Question Explanation
7
Oversight of the work of the independent outside auditor, including coordination with the IAA, is generally the responsibility of the board. Actual coordination is the responsibility of the CAE. Moreover, the CAE regularly evaluates that coordination and may assess internal and external audit activities (PA 2050- I). 
Coordination between internal and external auditors involves, among other things, sufficient meetings to ensure coordination of work and efficient and timely completion of activities, and to determine whether observations and recommendations from work performed to date require that the scope of planned work be adjusted. 
Coordination between internal and external auditors involves, among other things, access to internal audit communications and external auditors' management letters. 
Coordination between internal and external auditors involves, among other things, access to each other's work programs and working papers. 
568
Which two factors have changed the relationship between internal auditors and external
auditors so that internal auditors are partners rather than subordinates?

The increasing liability of external auditors and the increasing professionalism of internal auditors. 
The increasing professionalism of internal auditors and the evolving economics of external auditing. 
The use of computerized accounting systems and the evolving economics of external auditing. 
The globalization of audit entities and the increased reliance on computerized accounting systems. 
2
Question Explanation
7
Increasing liability makes external auditors less likely to determine that the work of the internal auditors has an effect on the external audit procedures. 
An external auditor may decide that the internal auditors' work will have an effect on audit procedures if (I) that work is relevant, (2) it is efficient to consider how the work may affect the audit, and (3) the external auditor determines that the internal auditors are sufficiently competent and objective. Hence, internal auditors may be viewed as partners in the audit because of their increasing professionalism. Moreover, the evolving economics of external auditing creates an imperative to control audit fees by eliminating duplication of effort and monitoring more closely the hours worked by external auditors. 
The use of computerized accounting systems has no significant effect on the relative roles of external and internal auditors. 
The globalization of audit entities has no significant effect on the relative roles of external and internal auditors. 
569
To improve their efficiency, internal auditors may rely upon the work of external auditors if it is
Performed after the internal auditing work.
Primarily concerned with operational objectives and activities.
Coordinated with internal auditing work.
Conducted in accordance with the Code of Ethics.
3
Question Explanation
7
Duplication of effort may result if the external audit is performed after the internal auditing engagement. 
Internal auditing encompasses both financial and operational objectives and activities. Thus, internal auditing coverage could also be provided by external audit work that included primarily financial objectives and activities. 
In coordinating the work of internal auditors with the work of external auditors, the CAE should ensure that work to be performed by internal auditors does not duplicate the work of the external auditors that can be relied upon for purposes of internal auditing coverage. To the extent that professional and organizational reporting responsibilities allow, internal auditors should perform services in a manner that allows for maximum coordination and efficiency (PA 2050- I). 
External auditing work is conducted in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the host country. 
570
You are the chief audit executive of a parent organization that has foreign subsidiaries.
Independent external audits performed for the parent are not conducted by the same firm that
conducts the foreign subsidiary audits. Because the internal audit activity occasionally provides
direct assistance to both external firms, you have copies of audit programs and selected
working papers produced by each firm. The foreign subsidiary&quot; s auditors would like to rely on
some of the work performed by the parent organization&quot; s audit firm, but they need to review the
working papers first. They have asked you for copies of the working papers of the parent
organization&quot;s audit firm. What is the most appropriate response to the foreign subsidiary&quot;s
auditors?

Provide copies of the working papers without notifying the parent' s audit firm.
Notify the parent's auditors of the situation and request that they either provide the working papers or authorize you to do so. 
Provide copies of the working papers and notify the parent's audit firm that you have done so. 
Refuse to provide the working papers under any circumstances.
2
Question Explanation
7
The working papers are the property of the parent's external auditors, and their confidentiality should be respected. 
Coordination of internal and external auditing efforts involves access to each other' s work programs and working papers. However, such access carries with it the responsibility to respect the confidentiality of those programs and working papers (PA 2050- I). Hence, the internal auditors must seek the approval of the parent's external auditors before granting access to their working papers to the external auditors of the subsidiaries. 
 The external auditors must give prior authorization for the release of their working papers 
The CAE has the responsibility to ensure proper coordination with external auditors. 
571
You are the chief audit executive of a parent organization that has foreign subsidiaries.
Independent external audits performed for the parent are not conducted by the same firm that
conducts the foreign subsidiary audits. Because the internal audit activity occasionally provides
direct assistance to both external firms, you have copies of audit programs and selected
working papers produced by each firm. The foreign subsidiary&quot; s external audit firm wants to
rely on an audit of a function at the parent organization. The audit was conducted by the
internal audit activity. To place reliance on the work performed, the foreign subsidiary&quot; s
auditors have requested copies of the working papers. What is the most appropriate response to
the foreign subsidiary&quot;s auditors?

Provide copies of the working papers.
Ask the parent's audit firm if it is appropriate to release the working papers.
Ask the board for permission to release the working papers.
Refuse to provide the working papers under any circumstances.
1
Question Explanation
7
Internal and external auditing efforts should be coordinated to ensure adequate coverage and to minimize duplication of effort. Coordination involves access to each other's work programs and working papers. Access to the internal auditors' work programs and working papers should be given to the external auditors for them to be satisfied as to the acceptability, for external audit purposes, of relying on the internal auditors' work (PA 2050- l). 
 The working papers are the property of the organization. The responsibility of the CAE is to maintain the security of the working papers and to coordinate efforts with the external auditors. Thus, the decision belongs not to the parent' s external auditors but to the CAE  
. Access to working papers by external auditors is subject to the approval of the CAE (PA 2330.Al- I). 
The CAE ensures proper coordination with external auditors by, among other things, granting the external auditors access to the internal auditors' working papers 
572
Which of the following is not a true statement about the relationship between internal auditors
and external auditors?

A.	 External auditors must assess the competence and objectivity of internal auditors.
There may be periodic meetings between internal and external auditors to discuss matters of mutual interest. 
There may be an exchange of engagement communications and management letters.
Internal auditors may provide engagement work programs and working papers to external auditors. 
1
Question Explanation
7
 The external auditor assesses the objectivity and competence of the internal auditors if their activities are relevant to the external audit and it is efficient to consider how that work may affect the nature, timing, and extent of external audit procedures. If the internal auditors are found to be sufficiently competent and objective, the external auditor then considers how their work will affect the external audit. Thus, external auditors are not required to assess the competence and objectivity of internal auditors 
 The relationship involves a sufficient number of meetings (PA 2050-I). 
The relationship involves reasonable mutual access to engagement communications and management letters (PA 2050- I). 
The relationship involves reasonable mutual access to engagement work programs and working papers (PA 2050- I). 
573
If a department outside of the internal audit activity is responsible for reviewing a function or
process, the internal auditors should

Consider the work of the other department when assessing the function or process.
Ignore the work of the other department and proceed with an independent audit.
Reduce the scope of the audit since the work has already been performed by the other department. 
Yield the responsibility for assessing the function or process to the other department.
1
Question Explanation
7
The chief audit executive should share information and coordinate activities with other internal and external providers of relevant assurance and consulting services to ensure proper coverage and minimize duplication of efforts (Standard 2050). This standard applies not only to external auditors but also to other 'providers,' such as regulatory bodies (e.g., governmental auditors) and certain of the organization' s other subunits (e.g., a health and safety department). Review and testing of the other department's work may reduce necessary audit coverage of the function or process. 
Concentrating on the function or process might lead to a duplication of efforts.  
 The internal auditor cannot rely on the work of others without verifying the results. 
The internal audit activity' s overall responsibility for assessing the function or process is not affected by the other department' s coverage. 
574
Assessments of the work of external auditors may be made by the chief audit executive
When the external auditor is appointed.
B.	When the CAE oversees their work.
C.	When their work is relied upon by the internal auditors.
D.	As part of the evaluation of the coordination between the internal and external auditors.
4
Question Explanation
7
The assessment is part of the regular evaluation of the coordination of audit work. 
The board oversees external audit work.
The assessment arises from the evaluation of coordination, not reliance. 
The CAE is responsible for regular evaluations of the coordination between internal and external auditors. Such evaluations may also include assessments of the overall efficiency and effectiveness of internal and external audit activities, including aggregate audit cost. The CAE communicates the results of these evaluations to senior management and the board, including relevant comments about the performance of external auditors. 
575
An internal audit activity is often requested to coordinate its work with that of the external
auditors. Which of the following activities is most likely to be restricted to the external
auditor?

A.	 Evaluating the system of controls over cash collections and similar transactions
Attesting to the fairness of presentation of cash position.
Evaluating the adequacy of the organization' s overall system of internal controls
Reviewing the system established to ensure compliance with laws, regulations, and contracts. 
2
Question Explanation
7
Evaluating controls is part of the internal auditor's scope of work 
Professional standards place sole responsibility for the attest function on the external auditors. Only the external auditors have the necessary independence to permit the provision of assurance to external parties. Unlike circumstances in which the external auditors use the work of other independent auditors, the responsibility cannot be shared with the internal auditors. 
Senior management and the board normally expect that the IAA will perform sufficient engagement work and gather other available information during the year to form an overall judgment about the adequacy and effectiveness of the control process. The CAE should communicate that judgment to senior management and the board. 
Evaluating compliance is part of the internal auditor's scope of work. 
576
Which of the following statements is true regarding coordination of internal and external
auditing efforts?

The chief audit executive should not give information about illegal acts to an external auditor because external auditors may be required to report the matter to the board or regulatory agencies. 
Ownership and the confidentiality of the external auditor's working papers prohibit their review by internal auditors. 
The chief audit executive should determine that appropriate follow-up and corrective action was taken by management when required regarding matters discussed in the external auditor's management letter. 
If internal auditors provide assistance to the external auditors in connection with the annual audit, such assistance is not subject to the Standards. 
2
Question Explanation
7
Internal auditors should give external auditors access to their engagement work programs, working papers, and communications. Thus, information about illegal acts should be communicated to the external auditor 
 Internal auditors and external auditors may grant access to each other's working papers 
Internal auditors need access to independent outside auditors' management letters. Matters discussed in management letters assist internal auditors in planning the areas to emphasize in future internal audit work. After review of management letters and initiation of any needed corrective action by appropriate members of management and the board, the CAE should ensure that appropriate follow-up and corrective action have been taken (PA 2050-I). 
All work done by internal auditors should be done in accordance with the Standards. 
577
The chief audit executive plans to meet with the independent external auditor to discuss joint
efforts regarding an upcoming external audit of the organization&quot;s pension plan. The
independent external auditor has performed all external audit work in this area in the past. The
CAE&quot;s objective is to

Determine whether work in this area could not be performed exclusively by the internal auditors. 
Coordinate the external audit so as to fulfill professional responsibilities and not duplicate work of the independent external auditor 
Ascertain which account balances have been tested by the independent external auditor so that the internal auditors may test the internal controls to determine the reliability of these balances. 
Determine whether the independent external auditor's techniques, methods, and terminology should be used by internal auditors in this area to conform with past work or to use techniques consistent with those used by other internal auditors. 
2
Question Explanation
7
The independent external auditor is not permitted to delegate certain work to the internal auditors, for example, the verification of material account balances related to a pension plan. 
In coordinating the work of internal auditors with the work of independent external auditors, the CAE should ensure that work to be performed by internal auditors does not duplicate the work of the independent external auditors that can be relied on for purposes of internal auditing coverage. To the extent that professional and organizational reporting responsibilities allow, internal auditors should conduct engagements in a manner that allows for maximum coordination and efficiency. 
Testing internal controls to determine the reliability of account balances is an example of duplicate work. 
Common understanding of techniques, methods, and terminology is involved in coordination of activities with other internal and external providers of relevant assurance and consulting services, and the use of common techniques, methods, and terminology may be efficient. However, the objective of coordination of efforts is to ensure adequate engagement coverage and to minimize duplication of efforts (Standard 2050), not to determine whether one set of techniques should be used to the exclusion of another. 
578
Exchange of engagement communications and management letters by internal and external
auditors is

Consistent with the coordination responsibilities of the chief audit executive.
Not consistent with the independence guidelines of the Standards.
A violation of the Code of Ethics.
Not addressed by the Standards.
1
Question Explanation
7
 The internal and external auditing work should be coordinated by the CAE to ensure adequate engagement coverage and to minimize duplicate efforts. Coordination involves periodic meetings to discuss matters of mutual interest; access to each other's engagement work programs and working papers; exchange of engagement communications and management letters; and common understanding of techniques, methods, and terminology (PA 2050- I). 
 The standard independence guidelines are not relevant to this exchange between internal and external auditors. 
The exchange does not violate the Code of Ethics.
. The Standards address the coordination of internal and external auditing work. 
579
Coordination of internal and external auditing can reduce the overall costs. Who is responsible
for actual coordination of internal and external auditing efforts?

Chief audit executive.
External auditor.
The board.
Management
1
Question Explanation
7
The CAE should share information and coordinate activities with other internal and external providers of relevant assurance and consulting services to ensure proper coverage and minimize duplication of efforts (Standard 2050). The CAE is responsible for actual coordination, and the board is responsible for oversight of the work of the external auditors, including coordination with the IAA. Coordination involves periodic meetings to discuss matters of mutual interest; access to each other's work programs and working papers; exchange of engagement communications and management letters; and common understanding of techniques, methods, and terminology (PA 2050- I). 
The external auditor is an interested party but not one that has direct responsibility for coordinating internal and external auditing efforts. 
The board has oversight responsibility, but the CAE is responsible for the actual coordination of internal and external auditing work. 
Management is an interested party but not one that has direct responsibility for coordinating internal and external auditing efforts. 
580
According to the Framework, which of the following are responsibilities of the chief audit
executive (CAE)?
 I. Coordinating activities with other providers of assurance and consulting services.
II.	. Understanding the work of external auditors.
III.	I. Providing sufficient information to the external auditors to permit them to understand the
internal auditors&quot; work.

land II only.
II and III only.
I and III only.
I, II, and III.
4
Question Explanation
7
Providing sufficient information to the external auditors to permit them to understand the internal auditors' work is a responsibility of the CAE when external auditors rely on the IAA's work. 
Coordinating activities with other providers of assurance and consulting services is a responsibility of the CAE.  
Understanding the work of external auditors is necessary whenever external auditors provide assurance about matters within the scope of the IAA.  
Organizations may use the work of external auditors to provide assurance related to activities within the scope of internal auditing. In these cases, the CAE takes the steps necessary to understand the work performed by the external auditors. Moreover, the external auditor may rely on the work of the IAA in performing their work. In this case, the CAE needs to provide sufficient information to enable external auditors to understand the internal auditor's techniques, methods, and terminology to facilitate reliance by external auditors on work performed. Also, the CAE is responsible for regular evaluations of the coordination between internal and external auditors. Such evaluations may include assessments of the overall efficiency and effectiveness of internal and external audit activities, including aggregate audit cost. The CAE communicates the results of these evaluations to senior management and the board, including relevant comments about the performance of external auditors (PA 2050- 1). 
581
In compliance with PA 2050- 1, a chief audit executive should include in regular evaluations of
internal and external audit activity an assessment of which of the following?

Only external audit cost.
Efficiency of only internal audit activity.
Aggregate audit cost.
Effectiveness of only external audit activity.
3
Question Explanation
7
Evaluation of internal audit cost is also included.
The efficiency of external audit activity is also included.
The CAE is responsible for regular evaluations of the coordination between internal and external auditors. Such evaluations may also include assessments of  the          overall efficiency and effectiveness of internal and external audit activities, including  aggregate audit cost (PA 2050-1).
effectiveness of internal audit activity is also included.
582
Coordinating internal and external audit activity can increase efficiency by using which of the
following?
 I. Similar techniques
II.	. Similar methods
III.	I. Similar terminology

I only.
land III only.
I and II only.
I, II, and III.
4
Question Explanation
7
Similar methods and terminology also increase efficiency.
Similar methods also increase efficiency.
Similar terminology also increases efficiency.
It may be efficient for internal and external auditors to use similar techniques, methods, and terminology to coordinate their work effectively and to rely on the work of one another (PA 2050- I). 
583
Gleim #: 7.7.108 - Source: Publisher
Board.
Chief audit executive.
Internal auditors.
External auditors.
2
Question Explanation
7
The board oversees but is not actually responsible for the coordination. 
Oversight of the work of external auditors, including coordination with the internal audit activity, is the responsibility of the board. Coordination of internal and external audit work is the responsibility of the chief audit executive (CAE). The CAE obtains the support of the board to coordinate audit work effectively. 
 Internal auditors carry out the coordinated directions from the CAE. 
External auditors perform their work in coordination with information provided by the CAE. 
584
Written agreements for external audit engagements are to be signed by the
Chief audit executive and internal auditors.
Service provider and engagement client.
Audit committee and chief audit executive.
Board of directors and chief audit executive.
2
Question Explanation
7
The CAE and internal auditors represent the engagement client. The agreement should be signed by representatives of the engagement client and the service provider. 
PA 2050-2 addresses the acquisition of external audit services. It states that service arrangements for external auditing should be documented in a written agreement signed by both the service provider and the engagement client. 
The audit committee and the CAE represent the engagement client. The agreement should be signed by representatives of the engagement client and the service provider. 
The board of directors and the CAE represent the engagement client. The agreement should be signed by representatives of the engagement client and the service provider. 
585
A quality assurance and improvement program (QAIP) of an internal audit activity provides
reasonable assurance that internal auditing work is performed in accordance with its charter.
Which of the following are designed to provide feedback on the effectiveness of an internal
audit activity?
 I. Proper supervision
II.	. Proper training
III.	I. Internal reviews
IV.	 External reviews

I, II, and III only.
II, III, and IV only.
I, III, and IV only.
I, II, III, and IV.
3
Question Explanation
7
Proper training is a feedforward, not a feedback, control
Proper training is a feedforward, not a feedback, control
A QAIP is designed to provide reasonable assurance to the various stakeholders of the IAA that it (I) performs in accordance with its charter, (2) operates effectively and efficiently, and (3) is perceived by the stakeholders as adding value and improving operations. The program includes appropriate supervision, periodic internal assessment and ongoing monitoring of quality assurance, and periodic external assessments (PA 1300-I). 
Proper training is a feedforward, not a feedback, control
586
Which of the following is part of an internal audit activity&quot;s quality assurance program, rather
than being included as part of other responsibilities of the chief audit executive (CAE)?

The CAE provides information about and access to internal audit workpapers to the external auditors to enable them to understand and determine the degree to which they may rely on the internal auditors' work. 
Management approves a formal charter establishing the purpose, authority, and responsibility of the internal audit activity. 
Each individual internal auditor's performance is appraised at least annually.
Supervision of an internal auditor's work is performed throughout each audit engagement.
4
Question Explanation
7
Providing working papers to the external auditors relates to the responsibility of the CAE to coordinate with external auditors. 
A CAE's responsibility to seek approval of a charter to establish the authority, purpose, and responsibility of the IAA is not part of a quality assurance program. 
Individual performance appraisals are part of a CAE's responsibility for personnel management and development 
The CAE develops and maintains a quality assurance and improvement program (QAIP) that includes ongoing and periodic assessments. Ongoing monitoring is incorporated into the routine policies and practices used to manage the IAA. The processes and tools used in ongoing internal assessments include engagement supervision, checklists and procedures, feedback from stakeholders, peer reviews of working papers, project budgets, timekeeping systems, audit plan completion, cost recoveries, and analyses of other performance metrics (Interpretation of Standard 1311 and PA 1311-I). 
587
An individual became head of the internal audit activity (IAA) of an organization one week
ago. An engagement client has come to the person complaining vigorously that one of the
internal auditors is taking up an excessive amount of client time on an engagement that seems
to be lacking a clear purpose. In handling this conflict with a client, the person should consider

Discounting what is said, but documenting the complaint.
Whether existing procedures within the internal audit activity provide for proper planning and quality assurance. 
Presenting an immediate defense of the internal auditor based upon currently known facts.
Promising the client that the internal auditor will finish the work within 1 week.
2
Question Explanation
7
The CAE has responsibilities for planning engagement work schedules and maintaining a quality assurance and improvement program and cannot afford to ignore a potentially valid complaint. 
The CAE should examine departmental procedures and the conduct of the specific engagement mentioned to ascertain that proper planning and quality assurance procedures are in place and are being followed. The CAE must establish risk-based plans to determine the priorities of the IAA, consistent with the organization's goals (Standard 2010). Planning includes determining goals and developing work schedules, staffing plans, and financial budgets. They should be accompanied by measurement criteria and targeted dates of accomplishment. A quality assurance and improvement program that includes appropriate supervision, periodic internal assessment and ongoing monitoring of quality assurance, and periodic external assessments is also necessary (PA 1300- 1). Thus, taking a neutral position with the complaining client and promptly following up is appropriate.  
 Taking a defensive position with the client stifles communication, hampers future engagement involvements, and ignores basic responsibilities for managing the IAA. 
Making a promise to end the work within a specified time without knowledge of the work schedule jeopardizes the authority of the CAE and the IAA in the current and future engagements. The CAE has an obligation to assure that adequate time is allowed for achieving engagement objectives. 
588
The chief audit executive should develop and maintain a quality assurance and improvement
program that covers all aspects of the internal audit activity and continuously monitors its
effectiveness. All of the following are included in a quality program except

Annual appraisals of individual internal auditors' performance.
Periodic internal assessment.
Supervision.
Periodic external assessments.
1
Question Explanation
7
A quality assurance and improvement program should be designed to provide reasonable assurance to the various stakeholders of the IAA that it (1) performs in accordance with its charter, which should be consistent with the Standards and the Code of Ethics; (2) operates effectively and efficiently; and (3) is perceived by the stakeholders as adding value and improving operations. The program should include appropriate supervision, periodic internal assessment and ongoing monitoring of quality assurance, and periodic external assessments (PA 1300- 1). The program for selecting and developing the human resources of the IAA provides for, among other things, appraising each internal auditor' s work at least annually 
Internal assessment is an element of a quality program.
Supervision is an element of a quality program. Ongoing reviews are internal assessments that include engagement supervision. 
External assessment is an element of a quality program.
589
According to PA 1310- 1, assessment of a quality assurance and improvement program should
include evaluation of all of the following except

Adequacy of the oversight of the work of external auditors.
Conformance with the Standards and Code of Ethics.
Adequacy of the internal audit activity's charter
Contribution to the organization's governance processes.
1
Question Explanation
7
 According to PA 2050- 1, 'oversight of the work of external auditors, including coordination with the internal audit activity, is the responsibility of the board.' It is not within the scope of the process for monitoring and assessing the quality program. 
Conformance with the Definition of Internal Auditing, Standards, and Code of Ethics, including timely corrective actions to remedy any significant instances of nonconformance, is an element of the assessment of a quality program. 
Adequacy of the internal audit activity's charter, goals, objectives, policies, and procedures is an element of the assessment of a quality program 
Contribution to the organization's governance, risk management, and control processes is an element of the assessment of a quality program 
590
The internal audit activity&quot; s quality assurance and improvement program (QAIP) is the
responsibility of

External auditors.
The chief audit executive
The board.
The audit committee.
2
Question Explanation
7
 External auditors may perform an external assessment, but the CAE is responsible for it. 
The chief audit executive must develop and maintain a quality assurance and improvement program that covers all aspects of the internal audit activity (Standard 1300). This program includes periodic internal and external quality assessments and ongoing internal monitoring 
The CAE may report results to the board, but the program is the CAE's responsibility. 
The CAE may report results to the audit committee, but the program is the CAE's responsibility. 
591
Which of the following is part of an internal audit activity&quot;s quality assurance program, rather
than being included as part of other responsibilities of the chief audit executive (CAE)?

The CAE provides information about and access to internal audit working papers to the external auditors to enable them to understand and determine the degree to which they may rely on the internal auditors' work 
Management approves a formal charter establishing the purpose, authority, and responsibility of the internal audit activity. 
Each individual internal auditor's performance is appraised at least annually.
Supervision of an internal auditor's work is performed throughout each audit engagement.
4
Question Explanation
7
. Providing working papers to the external auditors relates to the responsibility of the CAE to coordinate with external auditors. 
 A CAE's responsibility to seek approval of a charter to establish the authority, purpose, and responsibility of the IAA is not part of a quality assurance program. Answer  
Individual performance appraisals are part of a CAE's responsibility for personnel management and development
The CAE develops and maintains a quality assurance and improvement program (QAIP) that includes ongoing and periodic assessments. Ongoing monitoring is incorporated into the routine policies and practices used to manage the IAA. The processes and tools used in ongoing internal assessments include engagement supervision, checklists and procedures, feedback from stakeholders, peer reviews of working papers, project budgets, timekeeping systems, audit plan completion, cost recoveries, and analyses of other performance metrics (Interpretation of Standard 1311 and PA 1311-I). 
592
Ordinarily, those conducting internal quality program assessments report to
The board.
The chief audit executive. 
The CAE shares information about internal assessments with appropriate persons outside the IAA, such as senior management. 
The internal audit staff.
2
Question Explanation
7
At least annually, the CAE reports the results of internal assessments to the board.
 'The CAE establishes a structure for reporting results of internal assessments that maintains appropriate credibility and objectivity. Generally, those assigned responsibility for conducting ongoing and periodic reviews report to the CAE while performing the reviews and communicate results directly to the CAE'
The CAE shares information about internal assessments with appropriate persons outside the IAA, such as senior management. 
 Results ordinarily are communicated directly to the CAE. Given a self-assessment, reporting to the internal audit staff essentially involves having the staff report to itself. 
593
As a part of a quality program, internal assessment teams most likely will examine which of the
following to evaluate the quality of engagement planning and documentation for individual
engagements?

Written engagement work programs.
Project assignment documentation.
Weekly status reports.
The long-range engagement work schedule.
1
Question Explanation
7
Internal assessments should include ongoing monitoring of the performance of the IAA and periodic reviews performed through self-assessment or by other persons within the organization with sufficient knowledge of internal auditing practices (Standard 1311). The processes and tools used in ongoing internal assessments include, among other things, selective peer reviews of working papers by staff not involved in the respective audits (PA 1311-I). Because an engagement work program establishes the procedures for identifying, analyzing, evaluating, and recording information during the engagement, it is an essential part of planning the engagement. Lack of documentation of the work program is a serious failing 
Project assignment documentation contains less relevant information for assessment purposes than work programs. 
Status reports do not bear directly on planning.
The long-range engagement work schedule does not relate to planning and documentation for individual engagements. 
594
Feedback allows the chief audit executive to monitor the internal audit activity&quot;s efficiency and
effectiveness. Actions resulting from feedback include all of the following except

Revising risk assessments made during the planning phase of an engagement.
Revising the actual engagement hours to reflect only budgeted hours.
Identifying areas for future engagements.
Performing periodic follow-up procedures for outstanding recommendations
2
Question Explanation
7
Feedback is information gathered about completed activities. Revising risk assessments is an adjustment in the engagement process resulting from feedback. 
 The engagement budget should be analyzed to determine and report the variance between actual and budgeted hours. Actual hours should never be hidden 
 Feedback is information gathered about completed activities. Identifying areas for future engagements is an adjustment in the engagement process resulting from feedback. 
Feedback is information gathered about completed activities. Following up is an adjustment in the engagement process resulting from feedback. 
595
Periodic internal assessments of the internal audit activity primarily serve the needs of
The board of directors.
The internal audit activity's staff.
The chief audit executive (CAE).
Senior management.
3
Question Explanation
7
 The directors are secondary users of a periodic internal assessment. 
The IAA staff are secondary users of a periodic internal assessment. 
Those conducting internal assessments generally should report to the CAE while performing the reviews and communicate directly to the CAE. The CAE reports results, action plans, and implementation information with senior management and the board (PA 1311 -I). 
Senior management is a secondary user of a periodic internal assessment 
596
At what minimal required frequency does the chief audit executive report the results of internal
assessments in the form of ongoing monitoring to senior management and the board?

Monthly.
Quarterly.
Annually.
Biennially.
3
Question Explanation
7
The CAE may report on a monthly basis, but the minimal requirement for reporting is annually. 
The CAE may report on a quarterly basis, but the minimal requirement for reporting is annually 
The CAE must communicate the results of the quality assurance and improvement program to senior management and the board (Standard 1320). The form, content, and frequency of communicating the results of the QAIP is established through discussions with senior management and the board and considers the responsibilities of the IAA and CAE contained in the internal audit charter. To demonstrate conformance with the mandatory IIA guidance, the results of external and periodic internal assessments are communicated upon completion of such assessments. The results of ongoing monitoring are communicated at least annually. The results include the reviewer's or review team's assessment with respect to the degree of conformance (Interpretation of Standard 1320). 
The CAE is required to report more frequently than every 2 years.
597
Quality program assessments may be performed internally or externally. A distinguishing
feature of an external assessment is its objective to

Identify tasks that can be performed better.
Determine whether internal audit services meet professional standards.
Set forth the recommendations for improvement.
Provide independent assurance.
4
Question Explanation
7
An internal assessment will identify tasks that can be performed better 
An internal assessment will determine whether internal audit services meet professional standards. 
An internal assessment will set forth recommendations for improvement. 
External assessments must be conducted at least once every 5 years by a qualified, independent reviewer or review team from outside the organization (Standard 1312). Individuals who perform the external assessment are free of any obligation to, or interest in, the organization whose IAA is assessed (PA 1312-I). 
598
External assessment of an internal audit activity is not likely to evaluate
Adherence to the internal audit activity' s charter.
Conformance with the Standards.
Detailed cost-benefit analysis of the internal audit activity.
The tools and techniques employed by the internal audit activity.
3
Question Explanation
7
Adherence to the IAA's charter is within the broad scope of coverage of the external assessment 
Conformance with the Standards is within the broad scope of coverage of the external assessment. 
The external assessment has a broad scope of coverage that includes (1) conformance with The IIA's mandatory guidance and the IAA's charter, plans, policies, procedures, practices, and applicable legislative and regulatory requirements; (2) the expectations of the IAA expressed by the board, senior management, and operational managers; (3) the integration of the IAA into the governance process; (4) the tools and techniques employed by the IAA; (5) the mix of knowledge, experience, and disciplines within the staff, including staff focus on process improvement; and (6) the determination whether the internal audit activity adds value and improves operations (PA 1312-1). However, the costs and benefits of internal auditing are neither easily quantifiable nor the subject of an external assessment. 
The tools and techniques of the IAA are within the broad scope of coverage of the external assessment. 
599
An external assessment of an internal audit activity contains an expressed opinion. The opinion
applies

Only to the internal audit activity' s conformance with the Standards.
Only to the effectiveness of the internal auditing coverage
Only to the adequacy of internal control.
To the entire spectrum of assurance and consulting work.
4
Question Explanation
7
An opinion is expressed on all assurance and consulting work performed (or that should have been performed under its charter). 
The scope of an external assessment extends to more than the effectiveness of the internal auditing coverage.  
. An external assessment addresses the IAA, not the adequacy of the  organization's controls. 
External assessments of an IAA contain an expressed opinion on the IAA's entire spectrum of assurance and consulting work performed (or that should have been performed under its charter), including (but not limited to) conformance with the Definition of Internal Auditing, the Code of Ethics, and the Standards. An external assessment also includes, as appropriate, recommendations for improvement. On completion of the review, a formal communication should be given to senior management and the board (PA 1312- I). 
600
The interpretation related to quality assurance given by the Standards is that
External assessments can provide senior management and the board with independent assurance about the quality of the internal audit activity. 
Appropriate follow-up to an external assessment is the responsibility of the chief audit executive's immediate supervisor. 
The internal audit activity is primarily measured against the Institute' s Code of Ethics.
Supervision is limited to the planning, examination, evaluation, communication, and follow-up process. 
1
Question Explanation
7
External assessments of the IAA must be performed at least once every 5 years by a qualified, independent reviewer or review team from outside the organization (Standard 1312). An external assessment covers the entire spectrum of assurance and consulting work performed by the IAA. It is not limited to assessing the quality assurance and improvement program (PA 1312-I). 
The communication of final results of an external assessment should include the CAE's responses. These include an action plan and implementation dates. Moreover, the results are communicated to the stakeholders of the IAA, such as senior management, the board, and the external auditors. 
The external assessment considers the IAA's conformance with the Definition of Internal Auditing, the Standards, and the Code of Ethics. 
Supervision begins with planning and continues throughout the engagement (PA 2340-I). 
601
Disclosure must be made to senior management and the board whenever
The internal audit activity does not conform with the Standards.
The internal auditors do not conform with the Code of Ethics.
The internal audit activity does not conform with the Standards, or the internal auditors do not conform with the Code of Ethics. 
Nonconformance with the Standards or the Code of Ethics affects the overall operation of the internal audit activity. 
4
Question Explanation
7
Nonconformance must affect the IAA's overall scope or operation. 
Nonconformance must affect the IAA's overall scope or operation.  
 Nonconformance must affect the IAA's overall scope or operation. 
'When nonconformance with the Definition of Internal Auditing, the Code of Ethics, or the Standards impacts the overall scope or operation of the internal audit activity, the chief audit executive must disclose the nonconformance and the impact to senior management and the board' (Standard 1322). 
602
Internal auditors may report that their activities conform with the Standards. They may use this
statement only if

It is supported by the results of the quality program.
An independent external assessment of the internal audit activity is conducted annually.
Senior management or the board is accountable for implementing a quality program
External assessments of the internal audit activity are made by external auditors.
1
Question Explanation
7
. 'The chief audit executive may state that the internal audit activity conforms with the /nternational Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing only if the results of the quality assurance and improvement program support this statement' (Standard 1321). 
An independent external assessment of the IAA must be conducted at least once every 5 years (Standard 1312). 
The CAE must develop and maintain a QAIP that covers all aspects of the IAA (Standard 1300). 
Assessments also may be made by others who are (1) independent and (2) competent in the professional practice of internal auditing and the external assessment process (Interpretation of Standard 1312). 
603
When is initial use of the conformance phrase by internal auditors appropriate?
After an internal review completed within the past 5 years.
After an external review completed within the past 10 years
After an internal review completed within the past 10 years.
After an external review completed within the past 5 years.
4
Question Explanation
7
 Initial use of the conformance phrase requires the completion of an external review 
. Initial use of the conformance phrase requires the completion of a review within the past 5 years. 
Initial use of the conformance phrase requires the completion of an external review within the past 5 years. 
To use the phrase, an external assessment is required at least once during each 5-year period, along with ongoing monitoring and periodic internal assessments. These activities need to have concluded that the IAA is in conformance with the Definition of Internal Auditing, the Code of Ethics, and the Standards. Initial use of the phrase is not appropriate until an external review has demonstrated that the IAA is in conformance with the Definition of Internal Auditing, the Code of Ethics, and the Standards (PA 1321-1). 
604
Following an external assessment of the internal audit activity, who is (are) responsible for
communicating the results to the board?

Internal auditors.
Audit committee.
Chief audit executive.
External auditors.
3
Question Explanation
7
The chief audit executive (not internal auditors) is responsible for communicating the results of external assessments to the board. 
The chief audit executive (not the audit committee) is responsible for communicating the results of external assessments to the board. 
The chief audit executive must communicate the results of the QAIP to senior management and the board (Standard 1320 
The chief audit executive (not external auditors) is responsible for communicating the results of external assessments to the board. 
605
To demonstrate conformance of the internal audit activity with the mandatory guidance of The
IIA,

The chief audit executive determines the form and content of the results communicated.
The results of external assessments are communicated upon their completion.
The results of periodic internal assessments are communicated at least annually
The results of ongoing monitoring are communicated upon their completion.
2
Question Explanation
7
'The form, content, and frequency of communicating the results of the quality assurance and improvement program is established through discussions with senior management and the board and considers the responsibilities of the internal audit activity and chief audit executive as contained in the internal audit charter (Interpretation of Standard 1320).' 
'To demonstrate conformance with the Definition of Internal Auditing and the Standards, and application of the Code of Ethics, the results of external and periodic internal assessments are communicated upon completion of such assessments and the results of ongoing monitoring are communicated at least annually. The results include the reviewer's or review team's assessment with respect to the degree of conformance' (Interpretation of Standard 1320). 
The results of periodic internal assessments are communicated upon their completion. 
 The results of ongoing monitoring are communicated at least annually. 
606
Internal auditors must develop and document a plan for each engagement. The planning process
should include all the following except

Establishing engagement objectives and scope of work.
Obtaining background information about the activities to be reviewed.
Identifying sufficient information to achieve engagement objectives
Determining how, when, and to whom the engagement results will be communicated.
3
Question Explanation
8
The planning process includes establishing engagement objectives and scope of work. 
 The planning process includes obtaining background information. 
Planning should include (I) establishing engagement objectives and scope of work, (2) obtaining background information about the activities to be reviewed, (3) determining the resources necessary to perform the engagement, and (4) informing those in management who need to know about the engagement. It also includes performing, as appropriate, a survey to become familiar with activities, risks, and controls; to identify areas for engagement emphasis; and to invite comments and suggestions from engagement clients. Furthermore, planning extends to developing work programs; determining how, when, and to whom engagement results will be communicated; and obtaining approval of the engagement work program. Identifying sufficient information to achieve engagement objectives is done during field work, not planning. 
The planning process includes determining how, when, and to whom the engagement results will be communicated. 
607
An internal auditor conducts a preliminary survey and identifies a number of significant
engagement issues and reasons for pursuing them in more depth. The engagement client
informally communicates concurrence with the preliminary survey results and asks that the
internal auditor not report on the areas of significant concern until the client has an opportunity
to respond to the problem areas. Which of the following engagement responses is not
appropriate?

Keep the engagement on schedule and discuss with management the need for completing the engagement on a timely basis 
Consider the risk involved in the areas involved, and, if the risk is high, proceed with the engagement. 
Consider the engagement to be terminated with no communication of results needed because the engagement client has already agreed to take constructive action. 
Work with the engagement client to keep the engagement on schedule and address the significant issues in more depth, as well as the client's responses, during the course of the engagement 
2
Question Explanation
8
The internal auditor has identified significant engagement issues. No basis is given for not pursuing the engagement 
The internal auditor should always consider the risk associated with the potential observations as a basis for determining the need for more immediate attention. 
 The apparently constructive action by the engagement client may be a delaying tactic intended to conceal more serious problems after the internal auditor has identified significant engagement issues. Moreover, no basis is given for not pursuing the engagement. The internal auditor always considers the risk associated with the potential observations as a basis for determining the need for more immediate attention 
The internal auditor has identified significant engagement issues. No basis is given for not pursuing the engagement. 
608
During a preliminary survey, an auditor found that several accounts payable vouchers for major
suppliers required adjustments for duplicate payment of prior invoices. This would indicate

A need for additional testing to determine related controls and the current exposure to duplicate payments made to suppliers 
The possibility of unrecorded liabilities for the amount of the overpayments.
Insufficient controls in the receiving area to ensure timely notice to the accounts payable area that goods have been received and inspected. 
The existence of a sophisticated accounts payable system that correlates overpayments to open invoices and therefore requires no further audit concern 
1
Question Explanation
8
 Internal auditors must conduct a preliminary assessment of the risks relevant to the activity under review. Engagement objectives must reflect the results of this assessment (Standard 221 O.Al). Thus, an engagement's objectives and procedures address the risks associated with the activities under review. Engagement objectives are broad statements of what is to be accomplished, and procedures are the means to derive conclusions about engagement objectives (PA 2210- 1). Accordingly, this preliminary survey information should prompt the auditor to identify the magnitude of duplicate payments. 
 Unrecorded liabilities are not likely to result in the generation of duplicate accounts payable vouchers. 
The existence of duplicate payments is most likely related to a problem in accounts payable.  
Duplicate payments are not overpayments. They are exceptions and should be handled as such. 
609

	Which of the following procedures should be performed as part of a preliminary review in an
audit of a bank&quot;s investing and lending activities?

Review reports of audits performed by regulatory and outside auditors since the last internal audit engagement. 
Interview management to identify changes made in policies regarding investments or loans. 
Review minutes of the board of directors' meetings to identify changes in policies affecting investments and loans 
All of the answers are correct.
4
Question Explanation
8
Reviewing reports is not the only procedure performed as part of a preliminary review. 
Interviewing management is not the only procedure performed as part of a preliminary review. 
Procedures in addition to reviewing the minutes of board meetings are performed in a preliminary review. 
Internal auditors must conduct a preliminary assessment of the relevant risks in the activity under review. Engagement objectives must reflect the results (Standard 2210.Al ). A survey is usually performed to (1) become familiar with the client's activities, risks, and controls; (2) identify areas of emphasis; and (3) invite comments from the client. Possible survey procedures include (1) observations, (2) interviews, (3) report reviews, (4) analytical tests, (5) flowcharting, (6) a walk-'through, and (7) control documentation. 
610
You are an internal auditing supervisor who is reviewing the working papers of a staff internal
auditor&quot;s overall examination of the firm&quot;s sales function. The pages are not numbered or cross-
referenced. Furthermore, the working papers were dropped and reassembled at random before
they were brought to you. You decide to put the working papers in the proper order according
to the Standards. The first stage of this activity is to identify each page as a part of (A) the
preliminary survey, (B) the review of the adequacy of control processes, (C) the review for
effectiveness of control processes, or (D) the review of results. The second page the supervisor

selects documents an interview with a salesperson discussing the overall sales cycle. This page
belongs with which activity?

Preliminary survey
Review for adequacy of control processes.
Review for effectiveness of control processes.
Review of results.
1
Question Explanation
8
Planning includes performing, if appropriate, a survey to become familiar with the activities, risks, and controls to be reviewed; to identify areas for engagement emphasis; and to invite comments and suggestions from engagement clients (PA 2210.Al- I). Interviews with the engagement client may be conducted as part of the survey to obtain an overall understanding of operations. 
The review for adequacy determines whether control processes exist that are properly planned and designed. 
The review for effectiveness determines whether management has directed processes to provide reasonable assurance that goals and objectives will be achieved. 
Internal auditors review operations and programs to ascertain the extent to which results are consistent with goals and objectives. 
611
As a means of controlling projects and avoiding time-budget overruns, decisions to revise time
budgets for an engagement should normally be made

Immediately after the survey.
When a significant risk exposure has been substantiated.
When inexperienced staff are assigned to an engagement
Immediately after expanding tests to establish reliability of observations.
1
Question Explanation
8
A survey is a process for gathering information, without detailed verification, on the activity being examined. If appropriate, a survey should be conducted to become familiar with the activities, risks, and controls; to identify areas for engagement emphasis; and to invite comments and suggestions from engagement clients (PA 22 10.A I-I). This survey may lead to a determination that activities other than or in addition to those contemplated by the long-range engagement work schedule are necessary. Consequently, revision of the time budget may then be indicated 
When a risk exposure has been substantiated, no further engagement work is required. 
The assignment of inexperienced staff should have no effect on the decision to revise the time budget. 
Expanded tests should have no effect on the time budget; the budget would have already been expanded as necessary. 
612
During an operational engagement, an internal auditor compares the inventory turnover rate of
a subsidiary with established industry standards to

Evaluate the accuracy of the subsidiary's internal financial reports.
Test the subsidiary's controls designed to safeguard assets.
Determine if the subsidiary is complying with organizational procedures regarding inventory levels. 
Assess the performance of the subsidiary and indicate where additional engagement work may be needed. 
4
Question Explanation
8
This is a function of a financial audit.
This is a function of a financial audit.
Testing inventory turnover addresses economy and efficiency issues, not compliance. 
Inventory turnover equals cost of sales divided by average inventory. This activity ratio measures the subsidiary' s use of assets to generate revenue and income. Calculation of inventory turnover and comparison of the result with industry standards is an analytical procedure. A high turnover relative to the industry standard is desirable because it signifies that the organization does not hold excess and therefore unproductive inventory. Efficient management should minimize the sum of investment in inventory, carrying costs, ordering costs, and stockout costs. Operational engagements address these efficiency and economy issues and the effectiveness with which objectives are achieved. 
613
In advance of a preliminary survey, a chief audit executive sends a memorandum and
questionnaire to the supervisors of the department to be evaluated. What is the most likely
result of that procedure?

It creates apprehension about the engagement.
It involves the engagement client's supervisory personnel in the engagement.
It is an uneconomical approach to obtaining information.
It is only useful for engagements of distant locations.
2
Question Explanation
8
Greater knowledge of the upcoming engagement is more likely to remove some of the apprehension about the engagement 
 Sending a memorandum and questionnaire to the engagement client is part of a participative approach. It helps involve the supervisors of the engagement client's department and thereby encourages a more collegial approach to the engagement. Obtaining the assistance of the engagement client in data gathering, evaluating operations, and solving problems should result in improved relations and in more effective and efficient engagements 
Sending a memorandum and questionnaire to the engagement client is normally more economical. Some of the basic data gathering will be done by those most competent to do it rapidly. 
Sending a memorandum and questionnaire is advantageous in most circumstances. 
614
One of the primary roles of an engagement work program is to
Serve as a tool for planning and conducting engagement work.
Document an internal auditor's evaluations of controls.
Provide for a standardized approach to the engagement.
Assess the risks associated with the activity under review.
1
Question Explanation
8
Work programs (I) document procedures for collecting, analyzing, interpreting, and documenting information; (2) state engagement objectives; (3) state the nature and extent of testing; (4) identify technical requirements, objectives, risks, processes, and transactions to be examined; and (5) are prepared before work begins, with appropriate modification during the engagement (PA 2200-I). 
Engagement working papers include results of control evaluations. 
The work program may not be consistent from year to year given the changing conditions to which the engagement client must adapt. The work program must reflect the current year's situation. Thus, standardization may not be appropriate.  
The risk assessment in the planning phase helps to identify objectives, a step that must be taken before the work program can be developed 
615

	An external consultant is developing methods for the management of a city&quot;s capital facilities.
An appropriate scope of an engagement to evaluate the consultant&quot;s product is to

Review the consultant's contract to determine its propriety.
Establish the parameters of the value of the items being managed and controlled
Determine the adequacy of the risk management and control systems for the management of capital facilities. 
Review the handling of idle equipment.
3
Question Explanation
8
 The review of the consultant's contract to determine its propriety is related to the procurement decision 
The establishment of parameters for values of items being managed and controlled is a management responsibility. 
According to Standard 2201, 'In planning the engagement, internal auditors must consider: 0 The objectives of the activity being reviewed and the means by which the activity controls its performance; 0 The significant risks to the activity, its objectives, resources, and operations and the means by which the potential impact of risk is kept to an acceptable level; 0 The adequacy and effectiveness of the activity's risk management and control systems compared to a relevant control framework or model; and 0 The opportunities for making significant improvements to the activity's risk management and control processes.' 
Management must determine policies regarding idle equipment. Some equipment may be retained for emergency use. 
616
Documentation required to plan an internal audit engagement includes information that
Resources needed to complete the engagement were considered.
Planned engagement work will be completed on a timely basis.
Intended engagement observations have been clearly identified.
Internal audit activity resources are efficiently and effectively employed.
1
Question Explanation
8
Internal auditors must develop and document a plan for each engagement, including the engagement' s objectives, scope, timing, and resource allocations (Standard 2200). 
Whether the planned work will actually be completed on time cannot be known in the planning phase. 
Observations are what is actually found by performing procedures. Auditors must not anticipate the results of the work. To do so indicates a lack of objectivity. 
Documenting the economic and efficient use of resources can be done only on completion of the engagement. 
617
Which of the following is least likely to be placed on the agenda for discussion at a pre-
engagement meeting?

Objectives and scope of the engagement.
Client personnel needed.
Sampling plan and key criteria.
Expected starting and completion dates.
2
Question Explanation
8
Topics of discussion may include planned objectives and scope of work. 
Topics of discussion may include resources needed.
Meetings are held with management responsible for the activity being examined (PA 2200- I). These pre-engagement meetings between the internal auditor and engagement client are opportunities to discuss planning and housekeeping matters regarding the forthcoming engagement. The sampling plan would probably not be discussed because it is not determined until the preliminary survey and evaluation of controls are completed. 
Topics of discussion may include the timing of the work.
618
As part of planning an engagement, the internal auditor in charge does all of the following
except

Determine the period covered
Conduct meetings with management responsible for the activity under review.
Distribute reports from meetings with management.
Determine to whom engagement results will be communicated.
4
Question Explanation
8
The internal auditor determines engagement requirements not determined by the CAE. The internal auditor's determinations include the period covered, estimated completion dates, and the final engagement communication format. 
The internal auditor informs those in management who need to know about the engagement and conducts meetings with management responsible for the activity under review. 
The internal auditor conducts meetings with management responsible for the activity under review, summarizes and distributes the discussions and any conclusions reached from the meetings, and retains the documentation in the engagement working papers. 
'The CAE determines how, when, and to whom engagement results will be communicated. The internal auditor documents this and communicates it to management, to the extent deemed appropriate, during the planning phase of the engagement. The internal auditor communicates to management subsequent changes that affect the timing or reporting of engagement results' (PA 2200- I). 
619
In planning an assurance engagement, a survey could assist with all of the following except
Obtaining engagement client comments and suggestions on control problems.
Obtaining preliminary information on controls.
Identifying areas for engagement emphasis.
Evaluating the adequacy and effectiveness of controls.
4
Question Explanation
8
A survey could assist with obtaining client comments and suggestions on control problems. 
A survey could assist with obtaining preliminary information on controls.  
A survey could assist with identifying areas for engagement emphasis. 
A survey is a process for gathering information, without detailed verification, on the client being examined. According to PA 2210.Al -1, internal auditors conduct a survey to (1) become familiar with activities, risks, and controls; (2) identify areas for engagement emphasis; and (3) invite comments and suggestions from clients. A survey does not help in evaluating the adequacy and effectiveness of controls except to the extent the internal auditor gains familiarity with the controls. Evaluation requires testing. 
620
A company, which has many branch stores, has decided to use its best-performing store as a
benchmark organization for the purpose of analyzing the accuracy and reliability of branch
store financial reporting. Which one of the following is the most likely measure to be included
in a financial benchmark?

High turnover of employees.
High level of employee participation in setting budgets.
High amount of bad debt write-offs.
High number of suppliers.
3
Question Explanation
8
Turnover of employees is not a financial benchmark.
 Employee participation in setting budgets is not a financial benchmark. 
. Internal benchmarking is the application of best practices in one part of the organization (e.g., a high-performing branch store) to its other parts (other branches). This process requires, among other things, use of quantitative and qualitative measures. A key indicator for financial performance measurement is the amount of bad debt write-offs. A high level of bad debt write-offs could indicate fraud, which would compromise the accuracy and reliability of financial reports. Bad debt write-offs may result from recording fictitious sales. 
The number of suppliers is not a financial benchmark.
621
An assurance engagement in the quality control department is being planned. Which of the
following is least likely to be used in the preparation of a preliminary survey questionnaire?

An analysis of quality control documents.
The permanent engagement file.
The prior engagement communications
Management's charter for the quality control department.
1
Question Explanation
8
A survey is a process for gathering information, without detailed verification, on the client being examined. According to PA 2210.Al- 1, internal auditors conduct a survey to (1) become familiar with activities, risks, and controls; (2) identify areas for engagement emphasis; and (3) invite comments and suggestions from clients. An analysis of quality control documents is a part of field work, which follows the survey. 
The permanent engagement file probably contains information, such as problems detected in prior years that will help in the development of appropriate questions to ask this year  
The prior engagement communications will likely assist in developing the current year's questionnaire.  
Knowing what the department is supposed to do will help the internal auditor develop knowledgeable questions. 
622

	During which phase of the engagement does the internal auditor identify the objectives and
related controls of the activity being examined?

Preliminary survey.
Staff selection.
Work program preparation.
Final communication of results
1
Question Explanation
8
Planning should include performing, as appropriate, a survey to become familiar with activities, risks, and controls; to identify areas for engagement emphasis; and to invite client comments and suggestions (PA 2210.Al -1). 
Staff selection is the process of deciding which internal auditors will work on the engagement. 
The work program is prepared after the preliminary survey.
Final communication of results occurs after the completion of the engagement. 
623
The preliminary survey indicates that severe staff reductions at the engagement location have
resulted in extensive amounts of overtime among accounting staff. Department members are
visibly stressed and very vocal about the effects of the cutbacks. Accounting payrolls are nearly
equal to prior years, and many key controls, such as segregation of duties, are no longer in
place. The accounting supervisor now performs all operations within the cash receipts and
posting process and has no time to review and approve transactions generated by the remaining
members of the department. Journal entries for the last 6 months since the staff reductions show
increasing numbers of prior-month adjustments and corrections, including revenues, cost of
sales, and accruals that had been misstated or forgotten during month-end closing activity. The
internal auditor should

Discuss these observations with management of the internal audit activity to determine whether further work would be an efficient use of internal auditing resources at this time. 
Proceed with the scheduled engagement but add personnel based on the expected number of observations and anticipated lack of assistance from local accounting management 
Research temporary help agencies and evaluate the cost and benefit of outsourcing needed services. 
Suspend further engagement work and issue the final communication of results because the conclusions are obvious. 
1
Question Explanation
8
A preliminary survey allows the internal auditor to become familiar with activities, risks, and controls; to identify areas for engagement emphasis; and to invite engagement client comments and suggestions. Among other matters, the summary of results prepared at the conclusion of the reviews of (I) management's risk assessment, (2) the background information, and (3) any survey includes, when applicable, reasons for not continuing the engagement (PA 2210.Al- I). In this case, additional planning is necessary to modify the engagement for the difficult circumstances discovered during the preliminary survey and to address the responsibilities of the IAA 
What additional work will be necessary is not clear in these circumstances 
Management has not accepted this plan of action
A final communication of results would violate the Standards, including those relating to objectivity, due professional care, and performance of the engagement. 
624
A small city managed its own pension fund. According to the city charter, investments could be
made only in bonds, money market funds, or high&quot;&quot;quality stocks. The internal auditor has
already verified the existence of the pension fund&quot;s assets. The fund balance was not very large
and was managed by the city treasurer. The internal auditor decided to estimate income from
investments of the fund by multiplying the average fund balance by a weighted&quot;&quot;average rate
based on the current portfolio mix. Upon doing so, the internal auditor found that recorded
return was substantially less than was expected. The internal auditor&quot;s next procedure should be
to

Inquire of the treasurer as to the reason that income appears to be less than expected.
B.	Prepare a more detailed estimate of income by consulting a dividend and reporting service that lists the interest or dividends paid on specific stocks and bonds. 
C.	Inform management and the board that fraud is suspected and suggest that legal counsel be called in to complete the investigation. 
D.	Select a sample of entries to the pension fund income account and trace to the cash journal to determine if cash was received. 
2
Question Explanation
8
The internal auditor should refine the estimate further before discussing the matter with the treasurer. Even if the internal auditor has confidence in the first estimate, the potential fraud should result in further work, e.g., tracing the estimated income developed in the first step to the cash account before confronting the treasurer. 
When analytical procedures have unexpected results, for example, when pension fund assets are unexpectedly low, the internal auditor should examine and evaluate those results. This examination and evaluation should include inquiries of management (but not of the treasurer in this case) and other engagement procedures sufficient to explain the difference between the expectations and the results. Unexplained results may indicate an error, fraud, or illegal act. Although the substantial difference is suspicious, the internal auditor should prepare a more detailed estimate before deciding the most appropriate action. 
The internal auditor does not have sufficient information to justify the conclusion that fraud has occurred. 
 This procedure provides information only about recorded income. 
625
Which of the following best describes a preliminary survey?
A standardized questionnaire used to obtain an understanding of management objectives.
A statistical sample of key employee attitudes, skills, and knowledge.
A 'walk-through' of the financial control system to identify risks and the controls that can address those risks 
A process used to become familiar with activities and risks to identify areas for engagement emphasis. 
4
Question Explanation
8
Detailed procedures performed during a preliminary survey include use of standard questionnaires. 
 Detailed procedures performed during a preliminary survey include statistical sampling. 
 Detailed procedures performed during a preliminary survey include a walk-'through. 
Planning includes performing, as appropriate, a survey to (1) become familiar with the activities, risks, and controls; (2) identify areas for engagement emphasis; and (3) invite engagement client comments and suggestions (PA 2210.Al-1). Detailed procedures performed during a survey include use of standard questionnaires, statistical sampling, and a walk-'through. 
626
The internal auditors of a financial institution are performing an engagement to evaluate the
institution&quot;s investing and lending activities. During the last year, the institution has adopted
new policies and procedures for monitoring investments and the loan portfolio. The internal
auditors know that the organization has invested in new types of financial instruments during
the year and is heavily involved in the use of financial derivatives to appropriately hedge risks.
If the internal auditors were to conduct a preliminary review, which of the following procedures
should be performed?

Review reports of engagements performed by regulatory and external auditors since the last internal audit engagement. 
Interview management to identify changes made in policies regarding investments or loans. 
Review minutes of board meetings to identify changes in policies affecting investments and loans 
All of the answers are correct.
4
Question Explanation
8
During the survey, the internal auditors should review reports of engagements performed by regulatory and external auditors since the last internal audit engagement. 
 During the survey, the internal auditors should interview management to identify changes made in policies regarding investments or loans 
During the survey, the internal auditors should review minutes of board meetings to identify changes in policies affecting investments and loans. 
As part of the preliminary assessment of risk in engagement planning, the internal auditors may conduct, as appropriate, a survey to (I) become familiar with activities, risks, and controls; (2) identify areas for engagement emphasis; and (3) invite engagement client comments and suggestions (PA 2210.A I -I). A survey may involve (I) discussions with the client; (2) interviews with individuals affected by the activity, e.g., users of the activity's output; (3) on-site observations; (4) review of management reports and studies; (5) analytical auditing procedures; (6) flowcharting; (7) functional 'walk-'through' (tests of specific work activities from beginning to end); (8) documenting key control activities; (9) results of other engagements; and (10) review of minutes of board meetings. 
627
An internal auditor conducts a preliminary survey and identifies a number of significant
engagement issues and reasons for pursuing them in more depth. The engagement client
informally communicates concurrence with the preliminary survey results and asks that the
internal auditor not report on the areas of significant concern until the client has an opportunity
to respond to the problem areas. Which of the following engagement responses is not
appropriate?

Keep the engagement on schedule and discuss with management the need for completing the engagement on a timely basis 
Consider the risk involved in the areas involved, and, if the risk is high, proceed with the engagement. 
Consider the engagement to be terminated with no communication of results needed because the engagement client has already agreed to take constructive action. 
Work with the engagement client to keep the engagement on schedule and address the significant issues in more depth, as well as the client's responses, during the course of the engagement 
2
Question Explanation
8
The internal auditor has identified significant engagement issues. No basis is given for not pursuing the engagement 
The internal auditor should always consider the risk associated with the potential observations as a basis for determining the need for more immediate attention. 
 The apparently constructive action by the engagement client may be a delaying tactic intended to conceal more serious problems after the internal auditor has identified significant engagement issues. Moreover, no basis is given for not pursuing the engagement. The internal auditor always considers the risk associated with the potential observations as a basis for determining the need for more immediate attention 
The internal auditor has identified significant engagement issues. No basis is given for not pursuing the engagement. 
628
During a preliminary survey, an auditor found that several accounts payable vouchers for major
suppliers required adjustments for duplicate payment of prior invoices. This would indicate

A need for additional testing to determine related controls and the current exposure to duplicate payments made to suppliers 
The possibility of unrecorded liabilities for the amount of the overpayments.
Insufficient controls in the receiving area to ensure timely notice to the accounts payable area that goods have been received and inspected. 
The existence of a sophisticated accounts payable system that correlates overpayments to open invoices and therefore requires no further audit concern 
1
Question Explanation
8
 Internal auditors must conduct a preliminary assessment of the risks relevant to the activity under review. Engagement objectives must reflect the results of this assessment (Standard 221 O.Al). Thus, an engagement's objectives and procedures address the risks associated with the activities under review. Engagement objectives are broad statements of what is to be accomplished, and procedures are the means to derive conclusions about engagement objectives (PA 2210- 1). Accordingly, this preliminary survey information should prompt the auditor to identify the magnitude of duplicate payments. 
 Unrecorded liabilities are not likely to result in the generation of duplicate accounts payable vouchers. 
The existence of duplicate payments is most likely related to a problem in accounts payable.  
Duplicate payments are not overpayments. They are exceptions and should be handled as such. 
629
Which of the following procedures should be performed as part of a preliminary review in an
audit of a bank&quot;s investing and lending activities?

Review reports of audits performed by regulatory and outside auditors since the last internal audit engagement. 
Interview management to identify changes made in policies regarding investments or loans. 
Review minutes of the board of directors' meetings to identify changes in policies affecting investments and loans 
All of the answers are correct.
4
Question Explanation
8
Reviewing reports is not the only procedure performed as part of a preliminary review. 
Interviewing management is not the only procedure performed as part of a preliminary review. 
Procedures in addition to reviewing the minutes of board meetings are performed in a preliminary review. 
Internal auditors must conduct a preliminary assessment of the relevant risks in the activity under review. Engagement objectives must reflect the results (Standard 2210.Al ). A survey is usually performed to (1) become familiar with the client's activities, risks, and controls; (2) identify areas of emphasis; and (3) invite comments from the client. Possible survey procedures include (1) observations, (2) interviews, (3) report reviews, (4) analytical tests, (5) flowcharting, (6) a walk-'through, and (7) control documentation. 
630
You are an internal auditing supervisor who is reviewing the working papers of a staff internal
auditor&quot;s overall examination of the firm&quot;s sales function. The pages are not numbered or cross-
referenced. Furthermore, the working papers were dropped and reassembled at random before
they were brought to you. You decide to put the working papers in the proper order according
to the Standards. The first stage of this activity is to identify each page as a part of (A) the
preliminary survey, (B) the review of the adequacy of control processes, (C) the review for
effectiveness of control processes, or (D) the review of results. The second page the supervisor
selects documents an interview with a salesperson discussing the overall sales cycle. This page
belongs with which activity?

Preliminary survey
Review for adequacy of control processes.
Review for effectiveness of control processes.
Review of results.
1
Question Explanation
8
Planning includes performing, if appropriate, a survey to become familiar with the activities, risks, and controls to be reviewed; to identify areas for engagement emphasis; and to invite comments and suggestions from engagement clients (PA 2210.Al- I). Interviews with the engagement client may be conducted as part of the survey to obtain an overall understanding of operations. 
The review for adequacy determines whether control processes exist that are properly planned and designed. 
The review for effectiveness determines whether management has directed processes to provide reasonable assurance that goals and objectives will be achieved. 
Internal auditors review operations and programs to ascertain the extent to which results are consistent with goals and objectives. 
631
As a means of controlling projects and avoiding time-budget overruns, decisions to revise time
budgets for an engagement should normally be made

Immediately after the survey.
When a significant risk exposure has been substantiated.
When inexperienced staff are assigned to an engagement
Immediately after expanding tests to establish reliability of observations.
1
Question Explanation
8
A survey is a process for gathering information, without detailed verification, on the activity being examined. If appropriate, a survey should be conducted to become familiar with the activities, risks, and controls; to identify areas for engagement emphasis; and to invite comments and suggestions from engagement clients (PA 22 10.A I-I). This survey may lead to a determination that activities other than or in addition to those contemplated by the long-range engagement work schedule are necessary. Consequently, revision of the time budget may then be indicated 
When a risk exposure has been substantiated, no further engagement work is required. 
The assignment of inexperienced staff should have no effect on the decision to revise the time budget. 
Expanded tests should have no effect on the time budget; the budget would have already been expanded as necessary. 
632
During an operational engagement, an internal auditor compares the inventory turnover rate of
a subsidiary with established industry standards to

Evaluate the accuracy of the subsidiary's internal financial reports.
Test the subsidiary's controls designed to safeguard assets.
Determine if the subsidiary is complying with organizational procedures regarding inventory levels. 
Assess the performance of the subsidiary and indicate where additional engagement work may be needed. 
4
Question Explanation
8
This is a function of a financial audit.
This is a function of a financial audit.
Testing inventory turnover addresses economy and efficiency issues, not compliance. 
Inventory turnover equals cost of sales divided by average inventory. This activity ratio measures the subsidiary' s use of assets to generate revenue and income. Calculation of inventory turnover and comparison of the result with industry standards is an analytical procedure. A high turnover relative to the industry standard is desirable because it signifies that the organization does not hold excess and therefore unproductive inventory. Efficient management should minimize the sum of investment in inventory, carrying costs, ordering costs, and stockout costs. Operational engagements address these efficiency and economy issues and the effectiveness with which objectives are achieved. 
633
In advance of a preliminary survey, a chief audit executive sends a memorandum and
questionnaire to the supervisors of the department to be evaluated. What is the most likely
result of that procedure?

It creates apprehension about the engagement.
It involves the engagement client's supervisory personnel in the engagement.
It is an uneconomical approach to obtaining information.
It is only useful for engagements of distant locations.
2
Question Explanation
8
Greater knowledge of the upcoming engagement is more likely to remove some of the apprehension about the engagement 
 Sending a memorandum and questionnaire to the engagement client is part of a participative approach. It helps involve the supervisors of the engagement client's department and thereby encourages a more collegial approach to the engagement. Obtaining the assistance of the engagement client in data gathering, evaluating operations, and solving problems should result in improved relations and in more effective and efficient engagements 
Sending a memorandum and questionnaire to the engagement client is normally more economical. Some of the basic data gathering will be done by those most competent to do it rapidly. 
Sending a memorandum and questionnaire is advantageous in most circumstances. 
634
An example of an internal nonfinancial benchmark is
The labor rate of comparably skilled employees at a major competitor's plant.
The average actual cost per pound of a specific product at the company's most efficient plant. 
A US $50,000 limit on the cost of employee training programs at each of the company's plants. 
The percentage of customer orders delivered on time at the company' s most efficient plant. 
4
Question Explanation
8
The labor rate of a competitor is a financial benchmark.
The cost per pound at the company's most efficient plant is a financial benchmark. 
 The cost of a training program is a financial benchmark.
 Benchmarking is a continuous evaluation of the practices of the best organizations in their class and the adoption of processes to reflect the best of these practices. It entails analysis and measurement of key outputs against those of the best organizations. This procedure also involves identifying the underlying key actions and causes that contribute to the performance difference. The percentage of orders delivered on time at the company's most efficient plant is an example of an internal nonfmancial benchmark. 
635
The audit committee has raised a few issues that the internal audit activity will examine during
an operational audit for the current year. When performing the preliminary survey, which of the
following is not an appropriate technique?

Performing interviews.
Developing questionnaires.
Determining the largest risk of financial statement misstatement.
All of the above are appropriate techniques.
3
Question Explanation
8
Performing interviews allows the auditor to explore objectives, goals, and standards of operation, along with its risks. The interview also allows the auditor to gain insights into management's style. 
 Questionnaires can trigger appropriate preparation for the auditor's arrival as well as give the auditor insight into the organization' s operations. 
Determining potential misstatements is not the objective of an operational audit. Additionally, a final risk analysis is developed at a later time in the audit, not during the preliminary survey. A preliminary risk assessment is appropriate during this stage.  
The development and use of risk analysis to determine the largest risk of misstatement is not an appropriate preliminary survey technique. 
636
The internal auditor-in-charge has just been informed of the next engagement, and the
engagement team has been assigned. Select the appropriate phase for finalizing the engagement
budget

The internal auditor-in-charge has just been informed of the next engagement, and the engagement team has been assigned. Select the appropriate phase for finalizing the engagement budget 
After the preliminary survey.
During the initial planning meeting.
After the completion of all field work.
2
Question Explanation
8
An initial budget is determined during the formulation of the long-range plan, but revisions based on the preliminary survey may be required 
A survey permits an informed approach to planning and carrying out engagement work and is an effective tool for applying the IAA's resources where they can be used most effectively. Among other things, the results of the survey should include preliminary estimates of time and resource requirements (PA 2210.A I -1). Thus, after the preliminary survey has been completed, the final engagement budget can be prepared. 
At the initial planning meeting stage, the project is not

637
The chief audit executive was reviewing recent reports that had recommended additional
engagements because of risk exposures to the organization. Which of the following represents
the greatest risk and should be the next assignment?

Three prenumbered receiving reports were missing
There were several purchase orders issued without purchase requisitions.
Payment had been made for routine inventory items without a purchase order or receiving report. 
Several times cash receipts had been held over an extra day before depositing.
3
Question Explanation
8
The absence of a receiving report or purchase requisition will prevent payment if disbursements are properly controlled. 
Certain routine purchases may not require requisitions.
Payment vouchers for merchandise should be supported by a properly authorized purchase requisition, a purchase order executing the transaction, a receiving report indicating all goods ordered have been received in good condition, and a vendor invoice confirming the amount owed. Lack of such support for cash payments suggests a high risk of fraud. 
 Assuming other controls are in place, the extent of the risk is the loss of  1 day's receipts. 
638
In developing an engagement work program and communicating engagement results, the
internal auditor should be alert for a condition that might reflect low materiality of an
observation but high relative risk to the overall operation of the organization. Which of the
following conditions would reflect such a situation?

Many random clerical errors arise from the desire of employees to meet production quotas. 
No written quality-assurance procedure exists for a high-volume production line item with low unit cost that has a 15% scrap experience. 
The cashier is commingling personal funds with a US $1,000 imprest cash fund.
Levels of approval authority for purchasing personnel are not set forth in the manual of
2
Question Explanation
8
The condition has low relative risk.
Risk is the possibility of the occurrence of an event that could affect the achievement of objectives. It is measured in terms of impact and likelihood (Glossary appended to the Standards). Certain transactions (e.g., cash) are subject to a greater risk of fraud, and engagement procedures for them may need to be carried out in a more conclusive manner. Materiality is concerned with the qualitative or quantitative significance of an item. Thus, in planning the engagement, internal auditors consider, among other things, significant risks and opportunities for significant improvements (Standard 2201 ). A 15% scrap experience for a high-volume item with a low unit cost may not be material, but the absence of a quality assurance program suggests a high probability of errors or fraud (relative risk). 
 The condition is qualitatively material owing to the possibility of fraud. 
The condition is qualitatively material owing to the apparent absence of proper authorization of transactions. 
639
In planning an engagement, the internal auditor establishes objectives to address the risk
associated with the activity. Risk is the

Possibility that the balance or class of transactions and related assertions contains misstatements that could be material to the financial statements 
Uncertainty of the occurrence of an event that could affect the achievement of objectives
Failure to adhere to organizational policies, plans, and procedures or to comply with relevant laws and regulations. 
Failure to accomplish established objectives and goals for operations or programs.
2
Question Explanation
8
The risk of material misstatement in financial statement assertions is just one adverse effect that can result from unmitigated risk. 
'Internal auditors must conduct a preliminary assessment of the risks relevant to the activity under review. Engagement objectives must reflect the results of this assessment' (Standard 2210.A I ). Risk is the possibility of an event occurring that will have an impact on the achievement of objectives. Risk is measured in terms of impact and likelihood 
The failure to adhere to organizational policies, plans, and procedures or to comply with relevant laws and regulations is just one type of adverse effect that can result from unmitigated risk. 
 The failure to accomplish established objectives and goals for operations or programs is just one type of adverse effect that can result from unmitigated risk. 
640
Which of the following activities represents the greatest risk to a post-merger manufacturing
organization and is therefore most likely to be the subject of an internal audit engagement?

Combining imprest funds.
Combining purchasing functions.
Combining legal functions.
Combining marketing functions.
2
Question Explanation
8
Imprest funds are typically immaterial in amount.
 According to Standard 2210.A I , 'Internal auditors must conduct a preliminary assessment of the risks relevant to the activity under review. Engagement objectives must reflect the results of this assessment'  In a consulting engagement, the objectives must address governance, risk management, and control processes to the extent agreed upon with the client (Standard 2210.CI ). Purchasing functions ordinarily represent the greatest exposure to loss of the items listed and are therefore most likely to be evaluated. The financial exposure in the purchasing function is ordinarily greater than in, for example, the legal and marketing functions. After a merger, risk is heightened because of the difficulty of combining the systems of the two organizations. Thus, the likelihood of an engagement is increased. 
Legal functions do not typically represent a risk of loss as great as the purchasing functions. 
Marketing functions do not typically represent a risk of loss as great as the purchasing functions. 
641
An auditor experienced in air-quality issues discovered a significant lack of knowledge about
legal requirements for controlling air emissions while interviewing the manager of the
environmental, health, and safety (EHS) department. The auditor should

Alter the scope of the engagement to focus on activities associated with air emissions.
Alter the scope of the engagement to focus on activities associated with air emissions.
Take note of the weakness and direct additional questions to determine the potential effect of the lack of knowledge. 
Report potential violations in this area to the appropriate regulatory agency.
3
Question Explanation
8
The scope of the engagement should not be altered too early. Maintaining a broad scope and not reducing the scope prematurely are important considerations in the engagement process. 
Although the auditor may be able to contribute to the EHS manager's knowledge of pertinent air-quality matters, the auditor should focus on, during this phase of the engagement, learning what the manager does. 
An engagement's objectives and procedures address the risks associated with the activities under review. The preliminary risk assessment identifies significant activities requiring examination as potential objectives. Thus, the auditor ensures that the field work is designed to identify potential instances of noncompliance. In the closing conference, the auditor should recommend additional training for the EHS manager. 
An auditor should not report violations or potential violations to regulatory agencies. Such matters are the responsibility of the organization's counsel. 
642
During a preliminary survey of the accounts receivable function, an internal auditor discovered
a potentially major control deficiency while preparing a flowchart. What immediate action
should the internal auditor take regarding the weakness?

Perform sufficient testing to determine its cause and effect.
Report it to the level of management responsible for corrective action.
Schedule a separate engagement to evaluate that segment of the accounts receivable function. 
Highlight the weakness to ensure that procedures to test it are included in the engagement work program.
4
Question Explanation
8
Testing of the control will be performed during the field work phase of the engagement. 
There is no need to report the potential defect. Testing is needed before reporting the defect to management.  
 A separate engagement is not needed.
When planning the engagement, the internal auditor should identify and assess risks relevant to the activity under review. The engagement objectives must reflect the results of the risk assessment (Standard 2210.Al ). A survey is a process for gathering information, without detailed verification, on the activity being reviewed. Its purposes include understanding the activity under review, identifying significant areas warranting special emphasis, obtaining information for use in performing the engagement, and determining whether further review is necessary (PA 2210.Al -1). A potentially major control deficiency is a significant area warranting special emphasis and should be noted to ensure the needed coverage in the engagement work program. 
643

	Data-gathering activities such as interviewing operating personnel, identifying standards to be
used to evaluate performance, and assessing risks inherent in a department&quot;s operations are
typically performed in which phase of an audit engagement?

Field work
Preliminary survey.
Engagement program development.
Examination and evaluation of evidence.
2
Question Explanation
8
The preliminary survey must be performed before the field work can be undertaken. 
According to Standard 2210.A I , 'Internal auditors must conduct a preliminary assessment of the risks relevant to the activity under review. Engagement objectives must reflect the results of this assessment' Moreover, planning should include performing, as appropriate, a survey to become familiar with activities, risks, and controls; to identify areas for engagement emphasis; and to invite client comments and suggestions (PA 2210.Al-1). Thus, among many other things, a survey should include discussions with the engagement client (e.g., interviews with operating personnel) and documenting key control activities (including identifying performance standards). 
The preliminary survey must be performed before the engagement program can be developed. 
The preliminary survey must be performed before the evidence can be examined or evaluated. 
644
Internal auditors must make a preliminary assessment of risks when conducting an assurance
engagement. This assessment may involve quantitative (objective) and subjective factors. The
least subjective factor is

The organization's recognized losses on derivatives.
The auditor's assessment of management responses.
Changes in the auditee's business forecast.
The evaluation of internal control.
1
Question Explanation
8
In planning the engagement, internal auditors must consider the significant risks and the means by which the potential impact of risk is kept to an acceptable level (Standard 2201 ). Risk factors have differing degrees of objectivity. The most objective (least subjective) factors are facts. The organization's losses on derivatives are facts and therefore objective to the extent measurable. Objective information is such that it can be supported by facts or numbers. Subjective information is a judgment and may be interpreted differently by different people. 
The auditor's assessment of management responses is a professional judgment. 
The business forecast is not a fact.
The evaluation of internal control is based on professional judgment. Information based on judgment is subjective. 
645
Levels of production stoppages over the past year at a large laminating business were
abnormally high due to machine malfunctions. Would it be appropriate for the internal auditing
function to develop a survey examining attitudes toward line operations, rotation of work
zones, training, maintenance schedule, etc., for the machine operators to complete?

Yes, the survey is reliable without corroboration.
Yes, the examined areas are relevant to the malfunctions
No, the examined areas are irrelevant to the malfunctions.
No, the survey is inappropriate without corroboration.
2
Question Explanation
8
Reliability without corroboration is not the reason why the use of the survey is appropriate. The auditors should keep in mind the potential need to corroborate the information before making any final assessment. 
Internal auditors must conduct a preliminary assessment of the risks relevant to the activity under review. Engagement objectives must reflect the results of this assessment (Standard 221 0.Al). If appropriate, internal auditors conduct a survey to become familiar with the activities, risks, and controls to identify areas for engagement emphasis and to invite comments and suggestions from engagement clients (PA 2210.A I - I). The survey is appropriate as a means to conduct a preliminary assessment because the examined areas are relevant. The auditors should keep in mind the potential need to corroborate the information before making any final assessment, but this does not prevent use of the survey. 
The examined areas are relevant to the malfunctions
The need for corroboration will be determined after the survey is completed. Corroboration does not preclude the use of the survey. 
646
If a department outside of the internal audit activity is responsible for reviewing a function or
process, the internal auditors should

Consider the work of the other department when assessing the function or process.
Ignore the work of the other department and proceed with an independent audit.
Reduce the scope of the audit since the work has already been performed by the other department. 
Yield the responsibility for assessing the function or process to the other department.
1
Question Explanation
8
The chief audit executive should share information and coordinate activities with other internal and external providers of relevant assurance and consulting services to ensure proper coverage and minimize duplication of efforts (Standard 2050). This standard applies not only to external auditors but also to other 'providers,' such as regulatory bodies (e.g., governmental auditors) and certain of the organization's other subunits (e.g., a health and safety department). Review and testing of the other department's work may reduce necessary audit coverage of the function or process. 
Concentrating on the function or process might lead to a duplication of efforts. 
 The internal auditor cannot rely on the work of others without verifying the results. 
The internal audit activity' s overall responsibility for assessing the function or process is not affected by the other department' s coverage. 
647
Who has primary responsibility for providing information to the board on the professional and
organizational benefits of coordinating internal audit activities with those of other providers of
similar services?

The external auditor.
The chief audit executive
The chief executive officer.
Each assurance and consulting function.
2
Question Explanation
8
The CAE is responsible for ensuring that the IAA's work maximizes the benefits achievable from coordination with other assurance and consulting activities. Comments on this function should always form part of any activity reports by the CAE, not the external auditor, to the board. 
The chief audit executive should share information and coordinate activities with other internal and external providers of assurance and consulting services to ensure proper coverage and minimize duplication of efforts (Standard 2050). The CAE also is responsible for regular evaluations of the coordination between internal and external auditors. Such evaluations may include assessments of the overall efficiency and effectiveness of internal and external audit activities, including aggregate audit cost. The CAE communicates the results of these evaluations to senior management and the board, including relevant comments about the performance of external auditors (PA 2050-1). 
The CEO normally is not responsible for planning, work, and coordination related to internal audit assurance and consulting engagements or coordination with other assurance and consulting activities 
Not all other assurance and consulting activities are organizationally responsible to the board for their work. Moreover, they may not have the opportunity to report information directly to the board 
648
Who has primary responsibility for providing information to the board on the professional and
organizational benefits of coordinating internal audit activities with those of other providers of
similar services?

The external auditor.
The chief audit executive.
The chief executive officer.
Each assurance and consulting function
2

8
The CAE is responsible for ensuring that the IAA's work maximizes the benefits achievable from coordination with other assurance and consulting activities. Comments on this function should always form part of any activity reports by the CAE, not the external auditor, to the board. 
The chief audit executive should share information and coordinate activities with other internal and external providers of assurance and consulting services to ensure proper coverage and minimize duplication of efforts (Standard 2050). The CAE also is responsible for regular evaluations of the coordination between internal and external auditors. Such evaluations may include assessments of the overall efficiency and effectiveness of internal and external audit activities, including aggregate audit cost. The CAE communicates the results of these evaluations to senior management and the board, including relevant comments about the performance of external auditors (PA 2050-1). 
. The CEO normally is not responsible for planning, work, and coordination related to internal audit assurance and consulting engagements or coordination with other assurance and consulting activities. 
Not all other assurance and consulting activities are organizationally responsible to the board for their work. Moreover, they may not have the opportunity to report information directly to the board. 
649
Which of the following is a false statement about the relationship between internal auditors and
external auditors?

Oversight of the work of external auditors is the responsibility of the chief audit executive. 
Sufficient meetings are scheduled between internal and external auditors to assure timely and efficient completion of the work. 
C.	Internal and external auditors may exchange engagement communications and management letters. 
D.	Internal auditors may provide engagement work programs and working papers to external auditors. 
1

8
Oversight of the work of the independent outside auditor, including coordination with the IAA, is generally the responsibility of the board. Actual coordination is the responsibility of the CAE. Moreover, the CAE regularly evaluates that coordination and may assess internal and external audit activities (PA 2050- I). 
Coordination between internal and external auditors involves, among other things, sufficient meetings to ensure coordination of work and efficient and timely completion of activities, and to determine whether observations and recommendations from work performed to date require that the scope of planned work be adjusted. 
Coordination between internal and external auditors involves, among other things, access to internal audit communications and external auditors' management letters. 
Coordination between internal and external auditors involves, among other things, access to each other' s work programs and working papers. 
650
Which two factors have changed the relationship between internal auditors and external
auditors so that internal auditors are partners rather than subordinates?
The increasing liability of external auditors and the increasing professionalism of internal auditors. 
The increasing professionalism of internal auditors and the evolving economics of external auditing. 
The use of computerized accounting systems and the evolving economics of external auditing 
The globalization of audit entities and the increased reliance on computerized accounting systems. 
2

8
 Increasing liability makes external auditors less likely to determine that the work of the internal auditors has an effect on the external audit procedures.  
An external auditor may decide that the internal auditors' work will have an effect on audit procedures if (I) that work is relevant, (2) it is efficient to consider how the work may affect the audit, and (3) the external auditor determines that the internal auditors are sufficiently competent and objective. Hence, internal auditors may be viewed as partners in the audit because of their increasing professionalism. Moreover, the evolving economics of external auditing creates an imperative to control audit fees by eliminating duplication of effort and monitoring more closely the hours worked by external auditors. 
The use of computerized accounting systems has no significant effect on the relative roles of external and internal auditors. 
The globalization of audit entities has no significant effect on the relative roles of external and internal auditors. 
651
You are the chief audit executive of a parent organization that has foreign subsidiaries.
Independent external audits performed for the parent are not conducted by the same firm that
conducts the foreign subsidiary audits. Because the internal audit activity occasionally provides
direct assistance to both external firms, you have copies of audit programs and selected
working papers produced by each firm. The foreign subsidiary&quot; s auditors would like to rely on
some of the work performed by the parent organization&quot;s audit firm, but they need to review the
working papers first. They have asked you for copies of the working papers of the parent
organization&quot;s audit firm. What is the most appropriate response to the foreign subsidiary&quot;s
auditors?

Provide copies of the working papers without notifying the parent' s audit firm.
Notify the parent's auditors of the situation and request that they either provide the working papers or authorize you to do so. 
Provide copies of the working papers and notify the parent's audit firm that you have done so. 
Refuse to provide the working papers under any circumstances.
2

8
The working papers are the property of the parent's external auditors, and their confidentiality should be respected. 
Coordination of internal and external auditing efforts involves access to each other' s work programs and working papers. However, such access carries with it the responsibility to respect the confidentiality of those programs and working papers (PA 2050- I). Hence, the internal auditors must seek the approval of the parent's external auditors before granting access to their working papers to the external auditors of the subsidiaries. 
The external auditors must give prior authorization for the release of their working papers. 
The CAE has the responsibility to ensure proper coordination with external auditors. 
652
You are the chief audit executive of a parent organization that has foreign subsidiaries.
Independent external audits performed for the parent are not conducted by the same firm that
conducts the foreign subsidiary audits. Because the internal audit activity occasionally provides
direct assistance to both external firms, you have copies of audit programs and selected
working papers produced by each firm. The foreign subsidiary&quot; s external audit firm wants to
rely on an audit of a function at the parent organization. The audit was conducted by the
internal audit activity. To place reliance on the work performed, the foreign subsidiary&quot; s
auditors have requested copies of the working papers. What is the most appropriate response to
the foreign subsidiary&quot;s auditors?

Provide copies of the working papers.
Ask the parent's audit firm if it is appropriate to release the working papers.
Ask the board for permission to release the working papers.
Refuse to provide the working papers under any circumstances.
1

8
Internal and external auditing efforts should be coordinated to ensure adequate coverage and to minimize duplication of effort. Coordination involves access to each other' s work programs and working papers. Access to the internal auditors' work programs and working papers should be given to the external auditors in order for them to be satisfied as to the acceptability, for external audit purposes, of relying on the internal auditors' work (PA 2050- 1).  
The working papers are the property of the organization. The responsibility of the CAE is to maintain the security of the working papers and to coordinate efforts with the external auditors. Thus, the decision belongs not to the parent's external auditors but to the CAE. 
Access to working papers by external auditors is subject to the approval of the CAE (PA 2330.Al -1). 
The CAE ensures proper coordination with external auditors by, among other things, granting the external auditors access to the internal auditors' working papers. 
653
To improve their efficiency, internal auditors may rely upon the work of external auditors if it is
Performed after the internal auditing work.
Primarily concerned with operational objectives and activities.
Coordinated with internal auditing work.
Conducted in accordance with the Code of Ethics.
3

8
Duplication of effort may result if the external audit is performed after the internal auditing engagement. 
 Internal auditing encompasses both financial and operational objectives and activities. Thus, internal auditing coverage could also be provided by external audit work that included primarily financial objectives and activities. 
In coordinating the work of internal auditors with the work of external auditors, the CAE should ensure that work to be performed by internal auditors does not duplicate the work of the external auditors that can be relied upon for purposes of internal auditing coverage. To the extent that professional and organizational reporting responsibilities allow, internal auditors should perform services in a manner that allows for maximum coordination and efficiency (PA 2050- I). 
External auditing work is conducted in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the host country. 
654
Which of the following is not a true statement about the relationship between internal auditors
and external auditors?

External auditors must assess the competence and objectivity of internal auditors.
There may be periodic meetings between internal and external auditors to discuss matters of mutual interest. 
There may be an exchange of engagement communications and management letters.
Internal auditors may provide engagement work programs and working papers to external auditors. 
1

8
The external auditor assesses the objectivity and competence of the internal auditors if their activities are relevant to the external audit and it is efficient to consider how that work may affect the nature, timing, and extent of external audit procedures. If the internal auditors are found to be sufficiently competent and objective, the external auditor then considers how their work will affect the external audit. Thus, external auditors are not required to assess the competence and objectivity of internal auditors.  
The relationship involves a sufficient number of meetings (PA 2050-I). 
The relationship involves reasonable mutual access to engagement communications and management letters (PA 2050- I). 
The relationship involves reasonable mutual access to engagement work programs and working papers (PA 2050- I). 
655
Exchange of engagement communications and management letters by internal and external
auditors is

Consistent with the coordination responsibilities of the chief audit executive.
Not consistent with the independence guidelines of the Standards
A violation of the Code of Ethics
Not addressed by the Standards.
1

8
The internal and external auditing work should be coordinated by the CAE to ensure adequate engagement coverage and to minimize duplicate efforts. Coordination involves periodic meetings to discuss matters of mutual interest; access to each other's engagement work programs and working papers; exchange of engagement communications and management letters; and common understanding of techniques, methods, and terminology (PA 2050- I). 
The standard independence guidelines are not relevant to this exchange between internal and external auditors  
The exchange does not violate the Code of Ethics.
The Standards address the coordination of internal and external auditing work. 
656
Coordination of internal and external auditing can reduce the overall costs. Who is responsible
for actual coordination of internal and external auditing efforts?

Chief audit executive.
External auditor.
The board.
Management.
1

8
The CAE should share information and coordinate activities with other internal and external providers of relevant assurance and consulting services to ensure proper coverage and minimize duplication of efforts (Standard 2050). The CAE is responsible for actual coordination, and the board is responsible for oversight of the work of the external auditors, including coordination with the IAA. Coordination involves periodic meetings to discuss matters of mutual interest; access to each other' s work programs and working papers; exchange of engagement communications and management letters; and common understanding of techniques, methods, and terminology (PA 2050- I). 
The external auditor is an interested party but not one that has direct responsibility for coordinating internal and external auditing efforts. 
The board has oversight responsibility, but the CAE is responsible for the actual coordination of internal and external auditing work. 
Management is an interested party but not one that has direct responsibility for coordinating internal and external auditing efforts. 
657
The chief audit executive plans to meet with the independent external auditor to discuss joint
efforts regarding an upcoming external audit of the organization&quot;s pension plan. The
independent external auditor has performed all external audit work in this area in the past. The
CAE&quot;s objective is to

Determine whether work in this area could not be performed exclusively by the internal auditors. 
Coordinate the external audit so as to fulfill professional responsibilities and not duplicate work of the independent external auditor. 
Ascertain which account balances have been tested by the independent external auditor so that the internal auditors may test the internal controls to determine the reliability of these balances. 
Determine whether the independent external auditor's techniques, methods, and terminology should be used by internal auditors in this area to conform with past work or to use techniques consistent with those used by other internal auditors 
2

8
The independent external auditor is not permitted to delegate certain work to the internal auditors, for example, the verification of material account balances related to a pension plan. 
Iri coordinating the work of internal auditors with the work of independent external auditors, the CAE should ensure that work to be performed by internal auditors does not duplicate the work of the independent external auditors that can be relied on for purposes of internal auditing coverage. To the extent that professional and organizational reporting responsibilities allow, internal auditors should conduct engagements in a manner that allows for maximum coordination and efficiency. 
Testing internal controls to determine the reliability of account balances is an example of duplicate work. 
Common understanding of techniques, methods, and terminology is involved in coordination of activities with other internal and external providers of relevant assurance and consulting services, and the use of common techniques, methods, and terminology may be efficient. However, the objective of coordination of efforts is to ensure adequate engagement coverage and to minimize duplication of efforts (Standard 2050), not to determine whether one set of techniques should be used to the exclusion of another. 
658
According to the Framework, which of the following are responsibilities of the chief audit
executive (CAE)?I. Coordinating activities with other providers of assurance and consulting services.
II.	. Understanding the work of external auditors.
III.	I. Providing sufficient information to the external auditors to permit them to understand the
internal auditors&quot; work.

land II only.
II and III only.
I and III only.
I, II, and III.
4

8
Providing sufficient information to the external auditors to permit them to understand the internal auditors' work is a responsibility of the CAE when external auditors rely on the IAA's work  
Coordinating activities with other providers of assurance and consulting services is a responsibility of the CAE. 
Understanding the work of external auditors is necessary whenever external auditors provide assurance about matters within the scope of the IAA. 
Organizations may use the work of external auditors to provide assurance related to activities within the scope of internal auditing. In these cases, the CAE takes the steps necessary to understand the work performed by the external auditors. Moreover, the external auditor may rely on the work of the IAA in performing their work. In this case, the CAE needs to provide sufficient information to enable external auditors to understand the internal auditor's techniques, methods, and terminology to facilitate reliance by external auditors on work performed. Also, the CAE is responsible for regular evaluations of the coordination between internal and external auditors. Such evaluations may include assessments of the overall efficiency and effectiveness of internal and external audit activities, including aggregate audit cost. The CAE communicates the results of these evaluations to senior management and the board, including relevant comments about the performance of external auditors (PA 2050- I). 
659
In compliance with PA 2050- I, a chief audit executive should include in regular evaluations of
internal and external audit activity an assessment of which of the following?

Only external audit cost.
Efficiency of only internal audit activity.
Aggregate audit cost.
Effectiveness of only external audit activity.
3

8
Evaluation of internal audit cost is also included.
 The efficiency of external audit activity is also included.
The CAE is responsible for regular evaluations of the coordination between internal and external auditors. Such evaluations may also include assessments of the overall efficiency and effectiveness of internal and external audit activities, including aggregate audit cost (PA 2050-I). 
The effectiveness of internal audit activity is also included.
660
Coordinating internal and external audit activity can increase efficiency by using which of the
following?
I. Similar techniques
II.	. Similar methods
III.	I. Similar terminology

I only.
land III only.
I and II only.
I, II, and III.
4

8
Similar methods and terminology also increase efficiency. 
Similar methods also increase efficiency.
Similar terminology also increases efficiency.
It may be efficient for internal and external auditors to use similar
661
Which of the following is responsible for coordination of internal and external audit work?





2

8
The board oversees but is not actually responsible for the coordination. 
Oversight of the work of external auditors, including coordination with the internal audit activity, is the responsibility of the board. Coordination of internal and external audit work is the responsibility of the chief audit executive (CAE). The CAE obtains the support of the board to coordinate audit work effectively. 
Internal auditors carry out the coordinated directions from the CAE.
External auditors perform their work in coordination with information provided by the CAE. 
662
Written agreements for external audit engagements are to be signed by the

Chief audit executive and internal auditors.
Service provider and engagement client.
Audit committee and chief audit executive.
Board of directors and chief audit executive.
2

8
The CAE and internal auditors represent the engagement client. The agreement should be signed by representatives of the engagement client and the service provider  
PA 2050-2 addresses the acquisition of external audit services. It states that service arrangements for external auditing should be documented in a written agreement signed by both the service provider and the engagement client. 
The audit committee and the CAE represent the engagement client. The agreement should be signed by representatives of the engagement client and the service provider. 
The board of directors and the CAE represent the engagement client. The agreement should be signed by representatives of the engagement client and the service provider. 
663
In the planning phase, the scope of an internal audit engagement is defined by the


Engagement objectives.
Scheduling and time estimates.
Preliminary survey.
Engagement work program.
1

8
Internal auditors must develop and document a plan for each engagement, including the engagement's objectives, scope, timing, and resource allocations (Standard 2200). According to Standard 2220, 'The established scope must be sufficient to satisfy the objectives of the engagement' 
The scheduling and time estimates are based on the objectives and scope of the engagement. 
The scope must suffice to satisfy the engagement objectives. The initial objectives are further defined by the risk assessment during the engagement's planning phase. This risk assessment may include survey work as well as (I) consideration of management's assessment of risks and (2) obtaining (updating) background information (PA 2210.Al- I). 
The work program is developed after the preliminary survey and is based on the objectives of the engagement. 
664
Which of the following statements is an engagement objective?
Observe the deposit of the day's cash receipts.
Analyze the pattern of any cash shortages.
Evaluate whether cash receipts are adequately safeguarded.
Recompute each month's bank reconciliation.
3
Question Explanation
8
 Observation is a procedure.
Analysis is a procedure.
Engagement objectives must be established for each engagement (Standard 221 O). They are broad statements developed by internal auditors and define what the engagement is intended to accomplish (Glossary). Procedures are the means to reach conclusions related to the objectives. Evaluating whether cash receipts are adequately safeguarded is an objective because it states what the engagement is to accomplish. 
Recomputation is a procedure.
665
While planning an engagement, an internal auditor establishes engagement objectives to
describe what is to be accomplished. Which of the following is a key issue to consider in
developing engagement objectives?

The qualifications of the internal auditing staff selected for the engagement.
Risks associated with the activities to be reviewed.
Recommendations of the engagement client's employees
The recipients of the final engagement communication.
2
Question Explanation
8
The engagement objectives should regulate the selection of staff members, not vice versa. 
The engagement's objectives should address the risks associated with the activities under review. The purpose of the risk assessment during the planning phase is to identify significant areas of activity that should be examined as potential engagement objectives (PA 2210- 1).  
 Internal auditors must set their own objectives. Client input is more useful for defining the operating objectives to which the engagement objectives must relate. 
The needs of recipients addressed by the final engagement communication are determined by the engagement client's objectives. 
666

	The preliminary survey phase of an engagement to evaluate recruiting activity shows that hotel
and airfare expenses are approximately equal. Both hotel and airline arrangements are made by
the recruiting group secretary. Based on this information, the scope of field work should
include

Considering competitive factors involved in the selection of hotel accommodations.
Recommending that someone outside the recruiting group make hotel and airline reservations. 
Comparing the detail of hotel charges per candidate's expense reports to copies of hotel bills obtained directly from hotel sources. 
Obtaining assurance that candidates' legal rights are protected during the course of the interview experience. 
1
Question Explanation
8
Internal auditors can provide assistance to managers who are developing operating goals, objectives, and systems by determining whether underlying assumptions are appropriate, information is current and relevant, and suitable controls are incorporated into the operation in question. The scope of an engagement to evaluate recruiting expenses should include an inquiry as to whether procedures to minimize costs are in place and functioning effectively. 
Recommending that someone outside the recruiting group make hotel and airline reservations is a recommendation, not the scope of the engagement effort. 
Comparing the detail of hotel charges per candidate' s expense reports to copies of hotel bills obtained directly from hotel sources is an engagement work program step 
The legal rights of interviewees are not relevant to an engagement to evaluate recruiting expenses. 
667
An internal auditor is assigned to perform an engagement to evaluate the organization&quot;s
insurance program, including the appropriateness of the approach to minimizing risks. The
organization self-insures against large casualty losses and health benefits provided for all its
employees. It is a large national entity with over 15,000 employees located in various parts of
the country. It uses an outside claims processor to administer its health care program. The
organization&quot;s medical costs have been rising by approximately 8% per year for the past five
years, and management is concerned with controlling these costs. The internal auditor needs to
determine the scope of the proposed evaluation of insurance coverage. Which of the following
statements are true regarding the potential scope of the engagement?
I.The internal audit activity should concentrate on processing that occurs within the
organization and not on evaluating the correctness of transactions processing by the health
care processor.
II.The internal auditor should interview management prior to beginning the engagement to
understand (I) its concerns and (2) the underlying assumptions made and rationale used
when making the self-insurance decision.
III.The internal auditor should consider engaging an actuarial consultant to better understand
the risks involved in order to help determine the scope of the engagement.

I only.
II only.
land II.
II and III.
4
Question Explanation
8
The internal auditor needs to investigate the cause for the increase in costs and the accuracy with which the claims processor is handling claims. The internal auditor should routinely interview engagement client management and should also consider engaging an actuarial consultant. 
The internal auditor needs to investigate the cause for the increase in costs and the accuracy with which the claims processor is handling claims. The internal auditor should routinely interview engagement client management and should also consider engaging an actuarial consultant. 
The internal auditor needs to investigate the cause for the increase in costs and the accuracy with which the claims processor is handling claims. The internal auditor should routinely interview engagement client management and should also consider engaging an actuarial consultant. 
One step in planning the engagement is to define engagement objectives (intended engagement accomplishments) and procedures (means of achieving the objectives). Taken together, the objectives and procedures define the scope of the internal auditor's work. Objectives and procedures are documented in the engagement work program. Before the work program can be drafted, however, a preliminary assessment of the risks relevant to the activity under review is conducted (PA 2210.A I ). This survey includes, among other steps, discussions with the engagement client to increase the internal auditor's familiarity with the activities to be reviewed. Furthermore, if the internal auditing staff does not have the requisite knowledge, skills, and other competencies to perform all or part of the engagement, the CAE must obtain competent advice and assistance (Standard 1210.A I ). However, the outside claims processing function is an integral part of the organization's internal control. Thus, the scope of the internal auditor's work should extend to the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control over claims processing. 
668
Which of the following is an appropriate statement of an engagement objective?
To observe the physical inventory count.
To determine whether inventory stocks are sufficient to meet projected sales.
To search for the existence of obsolete inventory by computing inventory turnover by product line. 
To include information about stockouts in the final engagement communication.
2
Question Explanation
8
Observation of inventory is an engagement procedure.
Engagement objectives are developed after consideration of the engagement client's operating objectives. They address the risks, controls, and governance processes associated with the activities under review. Engagement objectives are broad statements developed by internal auditors to define what the engagement is intended to accomplish. Engagement procedures are the means to derive conclusions related to the engagement objectives (PA 2210- 1). Accordingly, determination of the sufficiency of inventory is an engagement procedure. 
Calculation of inventory turnover is an engagement procedure.
Inclusion of stockout information is a specification for an engagement communication. 
669
In an engagement to review a not-for-profit organization&quot;s special revenue fund, the primary
engagement objective is to determine whether the entity

Complied with existing fund requirements and performed specified activities.
Managed its resources economically and efficiently.
Prepared its financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in its country. 
Applies the funds in a way that would benefit the greatest number of people.
1
Question Explanation
8
A fund is a fiscal and accounting entity with a self-balancing set of accounts recording cash and other financial resources, together with all related liabilities and residual equities and balances, and changes therein, that are segregated for the purpose of carrying on specific activities or attaining certain objectives in accordance with special regulations, restrictions, or limitations. Thus, the primary engagement objective is to determine whether the entity complied with the existing fund requirements and performed the specified activities. 
The special purpose of the fund outweighs issues of economy and efficiency. 
Not-for-profit entities may use a modified accrual accounting system that is not in accordance with GAAP. 
Only the activities specified by fund restrictions are meant to be carried out. 
670
Which of the following is an appropriate objective in an engagement to review a personnel
department? Determining whether

Hourly employees are being paid only for hours actually worked as indicated by time cards or similar reports. 
An equitable training program exists that provides all employees with approximately the same amount of training each year. 
Reference checks of prospective employees are being performed.
Recruitment is being delegated to the various departments that have personnel needs.
3
Question Explanation
8


An effective personnel function is necessary for hiring, training, and monitoring human resources. One purpose of this function is to recruit, select, hire, train, supervise, and evaluate individuals who are suitable in light of job requirements, job descriptions, and job specifications (the abilities needed for particular jobs). In a review of this function, an appropriate objective is to determine whether the selection process is being properly performed. Thus, a potential employee's references should be checked to determine whether (s)he is truthful and has the desired qualifications..
 The personnel department should usually perform recruiting tasks.
671
The established scope of the engagement must be sufficient to satisfy the objectives of the
engagement. When developing the objectives of the engagement, the internal auditor considers
the

Probability of significant noncompliance.
Information included in the engagement work program.
Results of engagement procedures.
Resources required.
1
Question Explanation
8
According to Standard 2210.A2, internal auditors must consider the probability of significant errors, fraud, noncompliance, and other exposures when developing assurance engagement objectives. In a consulting engagement, the objectives must address governance, risk management, and control processes to the extent agreed upon with the client (Standard 2210.CI ). 
 Engagement objectives must be determined before the engagement work program is written. 
The objectives determine the procedures to be performed.
Internal auditors determine the resources required to achieve the engagement objectives. 
672
The scope of an internal audit assurance engagement includes consideration of
Only those systems and records under the control of the engagement client.
Relevant physical properties under third-party control.
Engagement observations, conclusions, and recommendations.
Final engagement communications.
2
Question Explanation
8
Systems, records, personnel, and physical properties under third- party control should be considered if relevant. 
 The scope of the engagement must include consideration of relevant systems, records, personnel, and physical properties, including those under the control of third parties (Standard 2220.Al ). 
 Engagement results reported in final engagement communications follow from performing the procedures and achieving the objectives that define the engagement scope. 
Engagement results reported in final engagement communications follow from performing the procedures and achieving the objectives that define the engagement scope. 
673
When reservations about the scope of consulting engagements arise, the internal auditors must
Keep the matter confidential and continue the engagement.
Expand the scope without any consultation with management.
Report the concerns to senior management through the CAE.
Meet with the engagement client to discuss the auditor's reservations.
4
Question Explanation
8
This is a consulting engagement.
The concerns must be discussed with the client.
The internal auditors must discuss the reservations with the client.
The established scope must be sufficient to satisfy the objectives of the engagement (Standard 2220). In performing consulting engagements, internal auditors must ensure that the scope of the engagement is sufficient to address the agreed-upon objectives. If internal auditors develop reservations about the scope during the engagement, these reservations must be discussed with the client to determine whether to continue with the engagement (Standard 2220.CI ). 
674
Which of the following statements applies only to consulting engagements?
 A.	 Engagement objectives must address governance to the extent agreed upon with the client. 
Engagement objectives must reflect the results of the preliminary assessment of the risks relevant to the activity under review. 
Internal auditors must consider the probability of significant errors, fraud, noncompliance, and other exposures when developing the engagement objectives. 
Internal auditors must ascertain the extent to which management has established adequate criteria to determine whether objectives and goals have been accomplished. 
1
Question Explanation
8
Consulting engagement objectives must address governance, risk management, and control processes to the extent agreed upon with the client (Standard 2210.CI). 
 Engagement objectives must reflect the results of the preliminary assessment of the risks relevant to the activity under review (Standard 2210.Al)
Internal auditors must consider the probability of significant errors, fraud, noncompliance, and other exposures when developing the engagement objectives (Standard 2210.A2).
Internal auditors must ascertain the extent to which management has established adequate criteria to determine whether objectives and goals have been accomplished (Standard 2210.A3). 
675
A            medium-sized municipality provides 8.5 billion gallons of water per year for 31,000
customers. The water meters are replaced at least every 5 years to ensure accurate billing. The
water department tracks unmetered water to identify water consumption that is not being billed.
The department recently issued the following water activity report:
Activity
	onth On
	Month
Two
	Month
Three
	Actual Ist
Quarter
	I st Quarter
Goal

Meters Replaced
	475
	400
	360
	1,235
	1,425

Leaks Reported
	100
	100
	85
	285
	
Leaks Repaired
	100
	100
	85
	285
	100%

nmetered Water
	2%
	6%
	2%
	4%
	2%

Based on the activity reported for leaks repaired in the first quarter, an internal auditor would
conclude that

Established operating standards are understood and are being met.
Deviations from the goal should be analyzed and corrective action should be taken.
The operating standard should be changed.
The leak-repair program is overstaffed.
1
Question Explanation
8
All reported leaks were repaired. The established goal is being met. Standard 2210.A3 states that adequate criteria are needed to evaluate controls. Internal auditors must ascertain the extent to which management has established adequate criteria to determine whether objectives and goals have been accomplished. If adequate, internal auditors must use such criteria in their evaluation. If inadequate, internal auditors must work with management to develop appropriate evaluation criteria. 
There were no deviations from the goal.
The operating standard should not be changed. It cannot be higher than the number of leaks reported. 
Staffing cannot be evaluated based on the information provided.
676
An internal auditor should exercise due professional care in performing assurance engagements.
Due professional care includes

Establishing direct communication between the chief audit executive and the board of directors. 
Evaluating established operating standards and determining whether those standards are acceptable and are being met. 
Accumulating sufficient information so that the internal auditor can give absolute assurance that irregularities do not exist. 
Establishing suitable criteria of education and experience for filling internal auditing positions. 
2
Question Explanation
8
Such communication promotes the independence of the internal audit activity rather than the performance of engagements with due professional care. 
In the exercise of due professional care, an internal auditor should, among other things, consider the adequacy and effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes (Standard 1220.A I ). Furthermore, adequate criteria are needed to evaluate controls. Thus, internal auditors must ascertain the extent to which management has established adequate criteria to determine whether objectives and goals have been accomplished (Standard 221 O.A3). Internal auditors should evaluate the established operating targets and expectations and should determine whether those operating standards are acceptable and are being met. 
Assurance procedures alone, even when performed with due professional care, cannot guarantee that all significant risks will be identified (Standard 1220.A2). 
Establishing suitable criteria of education and experience for filling internal auditing positions pertains to proficiency, not due professional care. 
677
Two major retailers, both publicly traded and operating in the same geographic area, have
recently merged. They are approximately the same size and have internal audit activities.
Organization A has little EDI experience. Organization B has invested heavily in information
technology and has EDI connections with its major vendors.
The audit committee has asked the internal auditors from both organizations to analyze risk
areas that should be addressed after the merger. The chief audit executive of Organization B has
suggested that the two IAAs have a planning meeting to share work programs, scope of
coverage, and copies of engagement communications that were delivered to their audit
committees. Management has also suggested that the internal auditors review the compatibility
of the two computer systems and control philosophy for individual store operations.
One internal auditor has suggested that each IAA conduct an engagement to evaluate consumer
satisfaction that would include an analysis of:  (I) customer complaints recorded by the
customer service department during the last 3 months, (2) merchandise returned in the last 3
months, and (3) responses to a survey of customers who made purchases in the last 3 months.
Which of the following statements regarding this approach is true?

Although useful, such an engagement does not address risk factors and would therefore not be compatible with the audit committee directives. 
The survey would not consider customers who did not make purchases in the last 3 months. 
Parts I and 2 of the engagement plan would not be necessary, or cost effective, if a comprehensive customer survey were developed. 
None of the answers are correct.
2
Question Explanation
8
Such an engagement would be compatible with audit committee directives. Risk factors are the criteria used to identify the relative significance of, and likelihood that, conditions or events may adversely affect the organization. Risk factors may include the effects of consumer attitudes. 
Because the survey is sent to customers who made purchases in the last 3 months, it ignores customers from previous periods. Consequently, it will not provide information on dissatisfied customers who are no longer doing business with the organization.  
Analyzing customer complaints and merchandise returns are cost effective procedures that provide better information than survey responses. 
The survey would not consider customers who did not make purchases in the last 3 months. 
678
An internal auditing team developed a preliminary questionnaire with the following response
choices:
I. Probably not a problem
II.	. Possibly a problem
III.	I. Probably a problem
The questionnaire illustrates the use of

Trend analysis.
B.	Ratio analysis.
Unobtrusive measures or observations.
Rating scales.
4
Question Explanation
8
Trend analysis extrapolates past and current conditions.
Ratio analysis considers the internal relationships of financial data. 
Use of rating scales requires the participant to participate actively. Thus, it is not unobtrusive. 
A rating scale may be used when a range of opinions is expected. The scale represents a continuum of responses. In this case, it reflects probability statements. 
679
Internal auditors must use both inductive and deductive reasoning when gathering information
and reaching conclusions. They must also understand the differences between the two types of
reasoning in order to assess the strengths and weaknesses of each. Which of the following
procedures uses deductive reasoning?

The internal auditor uses generalized audit software to select a sample of items for confirmation. Based on the confirmation responses, the auditor concludes that accounts receivable as recorded exist. 
The internal auditor performs analytical procedures to estimate the accuracy of the sales account balance. No material differences are noted. Based on this, the internal auditor assumes that the underlying record keeping must be correct. 
The internal auditor observes the client's physical inventory process and records test counts of inventory. Those test counts are traced to the year'end inventory compilation, and no exceptions are noted. The internal auditor concludes that the compiled inventory exists. 
The internal auditor examines sales transactions recorded during January Year 2 and finds that none of those sales represent Year  I sales. The internal auditor concludes that Year  I sales are recorded properly. 
1
Question Explanation
7
Sampling receivables is an example of an inductive process. It entails gathering empirical data about particular items and then determining the general principle that the evidence supports. 
Deductive reasoning is the inference of a conclusion about particulars from general or universal premises. In contrast, inductive reasoning is the inference of a generalized conclusion from particular instances. Analytical procedures are based on the general premise that plausible relationships among the data may reasonably be expected to continue in the absence of known conditions to the contrary. For example, absent unusual circumstances, the sales balance is relatively predictable given its known relationship to other factors, such as cost of sales. Thus, the process is one of deductive reasoning because a general premise (the known relationship of sales to other data) is applied to draw a conclusion about a particular instance (the sales balance).  
Test counting inventory is an example of an inductive process. It entails gathering empirical data about particular items and then determining the general principle that the evidence supports.  
Examining sales recorded after the balance sheet date is an example of an inductive process. It entails gathering empirical data about particular items and then determining the general principle that the evidence supports. 
680
The internal auditor is concerned about whether all the debits to the computer security expense
account are appropriate expenditures. The most appropriate engagement procedure is to
Take an attribute sample of computing invoices and determine whether all invoices are properly classified. 
Perform an analytical review comparing the amount of expenditures incurred this year with the amounts incurred on a trend line for the past 5 years. 
Take an attribute sample of employee wage expenses incurred by the outsourcing organization and trace to the proper account classification 
Take a sample of all debits to the account and investigate by examining source documents to determine the nature and authority of the expenditure. 
4
Question Explanation
8
The sample would be too broad to be efficient. The auditor is specifically interested in the debits to the account. 
Analytical procedures provide information as to whether the total expense is reasonable. They do not determine whether specific debits are correct. 
This procedure furnishes some information about the wage component of costs, but it is not relevant to other computer security costs. 
The sample should be taken from the population of interest, that debits to the expense account. The proper engagement procedure is to vouch the accounting records to the source documents. 
681
To determine whether credit controls are inconsistently applied, preventing valid sales to
creditworthy customers, the internal auditor should

Confirm current accounts receivable.
Trace postings on the accounts receivable ledger.
Analyze collection rates and credit histories
Compare credit histories for those receiving credit and for those denied credit.
4
Question Explanation
8
If credit is not granted, there would be no balance to confirm.
If credit is not granted, there would be no posting to trace.
If credit is not granted, there would be no receivable to collect.
Credit policy should maximize profits by balancing bad debt losses and the increase in sales derived from granting credit. One concern in an engagement involving credit management is whether credit policies and procedures are fairly             administered 
682
The internal audit activity has been assigned to perform an engagement involving a division.
Based on background review, the internal auditor knows the following about management
policies:
*  Organizational policy is to rapidly promote divisional managers who show significant
success. Thus, successful managers rarely stay at a division for more than 3 years.
*  A significant portion of division management&quot;s compensation comes in the form of
bonuses based on the division&quot;s profitability.
The division was identified by senior management as a turnaround opportunity. The division is
growing but is not scheduled for a full audit by the external auditors this year. The division has
been growing about 7% per year for the past 3 years and uses a standard cost system.
During the preliminary review, the internal auditor notes the following changes in financial data
compared with the prior year:
o  Sales have increased by l0%.
*  Cost of goods sold has increased by 2%.
*  Inventory has increased by 15%.
*  Divisional net profit has increased by 8%.
It is November and the internal auditing manager is finalizing plans for a year-end engagement
at the division. Based on the data, the engagement procedure with highest priority is to

Select sales transactions and trace shipping documents to entries into cost of goods sold to determine whether all shipments were recorded. 
Schedule a complete count of inventory at year end and have the internal auditor observe and test the year'end inventory 
Schedule a complete investigation of the standard cost system by preparing cost buildups of a sample of products. 
he problem is occurring during normal operations. Because of the red flags, the internal auditor should schedule a cutoff test, but the existing red flags point primarily to a problem with inventory overstatement. 
2
Question Explanation
8
Testing sales is appropriate, but the major problem appears to be the existence of inventory, and the internal auditor should start there. Answer   
Given that sales increased by 10% and inventory by 15% while cost of goods sold increased by only 2%, the data indicate that inventory is overstated and cost of goods sold is understated. Inventory might be overstated because of either quantity or cost differences. Because year end is near, the most appropriate procedure is to begin a physical observation of inventory and extend the engagement to price tests after establishing the existence of inventory
Investigating the standard cost system is appropriate, but the major problem appears to be the existence of inventory, and the internal auditor should start there. 

683
The internal auditor found that the purchasing department has a policy of setting all purchasing
lead times to the highest number of days experienced within each product subassembly, even
though some subassemblies required 3 or more months to complete. To address the objective of
reducing inventory holding costs related to this policy, the internal auditor should focus on

Reviewing production requirements for a sample of products to determine at which point in           the production process materials and subassemblies are needed. 
Evaluating whether product'line assignments were rotated among the members of the purchasing department. 
Identifying signature approval authority among members of the purchasing department in relation to any computer system controls. 
Testing those products having the highest sales to determine the average number of days that the completed products were held in inventory 
1
Question Explanation
8
The effect of the current policy is to increase inventory holding costs.              Using the longest lead time avoids stockout costs but ensures that many items will be delivered long before they are needed. 
Rotating assignments would not directly affect holding costs.
Approval requirements would not increase holding costs.
This would address holding costs for finished goods, but not for raw           materials and subassemblies. 
684
Assume the internal auditor becomes concerned that significant fraud may be taking place by
dentists who are billing the healthcare processor for services that were not provided. For
example, employees may have their teeth cleaned, but the dentist charges the processor for
pulling teeth and developing dentures. The most effective procedure to determine whether such
a fraud exists is to

Develop a schedule of payments made to individual dentists . Verify that payments were made to the dentists by confirming the payments with the healthcare processor. 
Take a random sample of payments made to dentists and confirm the amounts paid with the dentists' offices to determine that the amounts agree with the amounts billed by the dentists. 
Take a random sample of claims submitted by dentists and trace through the system to determine whether the claims were paid at the amounts billed. 
Take a discovery sample of employee claims that were submitted through dentist offices, and confirm the type of service performed by the dentist through direct correspondence with the employee who had the service performed. 
4
Question Explanation
8
Developing a schedule of payments and verifying that the payments were made does not reveal whether the claims were proper or fraudulent 
Verifying that dentists were paid the amounts that they billed does not reveal whether the claims were proper or fraudulent.  
Verifying that claims were paid at the amounts billed does not reveal whether the claims were proper or fraudulent. 
A discovery sample is used to identify critical errors or irregularities, that is, when a single deviation is critical. This method cannot be used to evaluate the results statistically if deviations are found. Because dentists are suspected of filing fraudulent claims, the auditor should take a discovery sample of employee claims. The internal auditor should then confirm the work done by the dentist according to the claim with the employee. The employee is the best source of information as to whether the service was provided. 
685
A large manufacturer has a transportation division that supplies gasoline for the organization&quot;s
vehicles. Gasoline is dispensed by an attendant who records the amount issued on a serially
prenumbered gasoline disbursement form, which is then given to the accounting department for
proper recording. When the quantity of gasoline falls to a certain level, the service station
attendant prepares a purchase requisition and sends it to the purchasing department where a
purchase order is prepared and recorded in a gasoline purchases journal. Which of the
following engagement procedures will best determine whether gasoline disbursements are fully
and completely recorded?

Compare the gasoline purchase requisitions with the gasoline disbursement records.
Select a number of gasoline purchases from the gasoline purchases journal and compare them with their corresponding purchase orders and ascertain that they are serially prenumbered, are matched with purchase requisitions, and are authorized by someone independent of employees of the service station. 
Perform analytical procedures comparing this period's gasoline consumption with prior periods 
Match the quantity of gasoline disbursed according to disbursement forms with an independent reading of quantity disbursed at the pump. 
4
Question Explanation
8
Matching the gasoline purchase requisitions with the gasoline disbursement records is not a meaningful procedure. Temperature-related expansion and contraction can cause significant differences between purchases and disbursements. 
Matching entries from the gasoline purchases journal with the corresponding purchase orders ascertains that purchases are supported by proper source documents but does not assure the completeness of the disbursement records. 
Performing analytical procedures does not provide any information regarding proper controls over gasoline purchases. 
. Physical information is best obtained through direct observation or inspection by the internal auditor. Because the gasoline disbursement forms are prenumbered, the internal auditor is able to match them with the independent reading of quantity disbursed at the pump to test the completeness of disbursement records. 
686
Which of the following engagement techniques would be most persuasive in determining that
significant inventory values on the books of an acquiree are accurately stated?

Obtain a management representation letter stating that inventory values are correctly stated. 
Flowchart the inventory and warehousing cycle and form an opinion based on the quality of internal controls. 
Conduct a physical inventory and bring in an independent expert if necessary to value inventory items. 
Interview purchasing and materials control personnel to ascertain the quality of internal controls over inventory. 
3
Question Explanation
8
 Management certification as a means of attesting inventory values does not provide sufficient, reliable, relevant, and useful information. 
Flowcharting the internal controls is not an accurate test of inventory value.  
A physical inventory should almost certainly be requested for an acquisition involving significant inventory values. The internal auditor's direct observation of inventory provides the most reliable information. Appraisal by an outside service provider may be necessary if the internal audit activity lacks the necessary expertise.  
Testimonial information is not sufficient to determine the correctness of inventory values. 
687
Cash receipts should be deposited on the day of receipt or the following business day. Select
the most appropriate engagement procedure to determine that cash is promptly deposited.

Review cash register tapes prepared for each sale.
Review the functions of cash handling and maintaining accounting records for proper separation of duties. 
Compare the daily cash receipts totals with the bank deposits.
Review the functions of cash receiving and disbursing for proper separation of duties.
3
Question Explanation
8
Cash register tapes will not ensure that cash is deposited.
Separating functions will not ensure that cash is deposited.
A standard control over the cash receipts function is to require that daily cash receipts be deposited promptly and intact. Hence, the total of cash receipts for a day should equal the bank deposit because no cash disbursements are made from the daily receipts. To determine whether cash receipts are promptly deposited, the internal auditor should compare the daily cash receipts totals with bank deposits. 
Separate receiving and disbursing functions will not ensure that cash is promptly deposited. 
688
One of the engagement objectives of a financial audit of the organization&quot;s accounts receivable
function is to determine whether prescribed standard procedures are followed when credit is
granted. Which of the following engagement procedures will produce the most reliable
information?

Ask management of the credit department if specific policies and procedures are followed when granting credit. 
Select a statistical sample of credit applications and test them for conformance with prescribed procedures. 
Analytically review the relationships between trends in credit sales and bad debts.
Review procedures for periodically aging accounts receivable.
2
Question Explanation
8
Interviews with credit department management produce testimonial information that is more useful in gaining an understanding of operations or providing insight into the reasons for exceptions 
To determine whether the accounts receivable function is following prescribed standards for the granting of credit, the internal auditor should select a statistical sample of credit applications and test them for conformance with prescribed procedures. Detailed testing of actual credit applications produces direct information about the application (or the lack of application) of specific procedures, for example, authorization of credit by an appropriate individual. 
Analytical procedures can be used to isolate unusual or unexplained fluctuations but do not locate the cause. 
An aged accounts receivable schedule provides information about whether a particular account might be collected, not the application of credit procedures 
689
In a review of the accounting department&quot;s bank reconciliation unit, which of the following is
an appropriate engagement procedure to test canceled checks for authorized signatures?

Compare the check date with the first cancellation date
Determine that all checks are signed by individuals authorized by the board.
Examine a representative sample of signed checks and determine that the signatures are authorized in the organization's signature book. 
Complete the tests of controls over check signatures in 4 hours.
3
Question Explanation
8
Comparing the check date with the first cancellation date has no bearing on a review for authorized signatures. 
A statement of an engagement objective is not an engagement procedure. 
Cash disbursements must be properly authorized. The issuance of checks is performed by the treasury function after review of supporting documents, including a payment voucher prepared by the accounts payable department. Proper control procedures require that check-signing responsibility be limited to a few persons whose signatures are kept on file at the financial institutions where the organization has accounts. 
A time budget goal is not an engagement procedure.
690
During an engagement to review the December 31, Year 2, accounts payable balance of a
division, the internal auditor has received from the division controller&quot;s office a schedule listing
the creditors and the amount owed to each at December 31, Year 2. Which of the following
engagement procedures best determines that no individual account payable has been omitted
from the schedule?

Send confirmation requests to a randomly selected sample of creditors listed on the schedule. 
Send confirmation requests to creditors listed on the schedule that were not listed on the corresponding December 31, Year 1, schedule. 
Examine support for selected January Year 3 payments to creditors, ascertaining that those relating to Year 3 are not on the schedule. 
Examine support for selected January Year 3 payments to creditors, ascertaining that those relating to Year 2 are on the schedule. 
1
Question Explanation
7
Confirmation is unlikely to detect unrecorded amounts owed to creditors not listed on the schedule. 
Confirmation of zero balances might be more useful to detect unrecorded amounts than confirming amounts owed currently.  
This procedure is intended to detect overstatement, not understatement, of Year 2 payables.  
The greatest danger in an engagement involving accounts payable is that unrecorded liabilities exist. Omission of an entry to record a payable is an irregularity more difficult to detect than an inaccurate or false entry. The search for unrecorded payables should include examining cash disbursements made after the balance sheet date for  expenditures for goods and services received prior to year end and comparing them with the accounts payable trial balance, sending confirmations to vendors with zero balances, and reconciling payable balances with vendors' documentation. 
691
Which is the best engagement procedure to obtain information to support the legal ownership
of real property?

Examination of board resolutions with regard to approvals to acquire real property.
Examination of closing documents, deeds, and ownership documents registered and on file in local government records. 
Discussion with the organization's legal counsel concerning the acquisition of a specific piece of property. 
Confirmation with the title company that handled the escrow account and disbursement of proceeds on the closing of the property. 
2
Question Explanation
8
An examination of board resolutions will not provide information about actual ownership, only approval to acquire the property. 
Examination of title documents, the deed, and any other supporting documents, such as closing documents, will be helpful in verifying ownership. But these records are not conclusive. An inspection of public records will determine whether any interests in the property (e.g., mortgages, judgment liens, or claims to the title) exist that do not appear in the engagement client's records 
The testimony of legal counsel provides only corroborating information. 
Confirmation with an escrow agent provides information only about the closing. It does not provide information regarding subsequent transactions, such as a mortgage liability not recorded in the accounting records. 
692
The internal auditors are evaluating the adequacy of the new policies and procedures in
maintaining an appropriate risk profile. Which of the following engagement procedures is least
relevant to the accomplishment of the engagement objective?

Meet with operational management to determine its interpretation of those procedures that are not clear. 
Meet with senior management or a board member, if necessary, to clarify policy issues.
Test a sample of investments for compliance with the new procedures.
Review recent regulatory pronouncements to determine whether the new procedures are consistent with regulatory requirements. 
3
Question Explanation
8
The internal auditors must seek authoritative interpretations of vague operating standards 
Policy issues that are not clear should be clarified by upper management or the board. 
Based on the results of the risk assessment, the internal audit activity should evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of controls (for example, the new policies and procedures for monitoring investments and loans) encompassing the organization's governance, operations, and information systems. This should include, among other things, the reliability and integrity of financial information (Standard 2120.Al ). Adequacy of risk management, control, and governance processes is present when management plans and designs them so that they provide reasonable assurance that organizational objectives and goals will be achieved efficiently and economically. Testing for compliance with controls is a procedure to determine their effectiveness, that is, whether management has directed processes so that they provide reasonable assurance that organizational objectives and goals will be achieved (PA 2100- 1). 
The auditors should determine whether the criteria used by the organization comply with laws, regulations, and contracts. 
693
A company maintains production data on personal computers, connected by a local area
network (LAN), and uses the data to generate automatic purchases via electronic data inter-
change. Purchases are made from authorized vendors based on production plans for the next
month and on an authorized materials requirements plan (MRP) which identifies the parts
needed for each unit of production. The production line has experienced shutdowns because
needed production parts were not on hand. Which of the following audit procedures would best
identify the cause of the parts shortages?

Determine if access controls are sufficient to restrict the input of incorrect data into the production database. 
Use generalized audit software to develop a complete list of the parts shortages that caused each of the production shutdowns, and analyze this data. 
Select a random sample of parts on hand per the personal computer databases and compare with actual parts on hand. 
Select a random sample of production information for selected days and trace input into the production database maintained on the LAN. 
2
Question Explanation
8
Access controls are not necessarily directly relevant. Authorized but incorrect data also could be the problem. 
Internal auditors apply engagement (audit) procedures to obtain sufficient, competent, relevant, and useful information (evidence) to achieve the internal audit engagement's objectives. Analysis results in an understanding of a situation, set of circumstances, or process. It means understanding a whole by studying its parts. Analysis of a complete list of parts shortages establishes the cause. 
Testing a sample provides useful information, but it is not as comprehensive as analyzing the complete list of parts shortages. 
 This procedure tests only one source of the data inaccuracy (that is, the input of production data). Other sources of potential error are ignored 
694
A company maintains production data on personal computers, connected by a local area
network (LAN), and uses the data to generate automatic purchases via electronic data inter-
change. Purchases are made from authorized vendors based on production plans for the next
month and on an authorized materials requirements plan (MRP) which identifies the parts
needed for each unit of production. Which of the following audit procedures would be most
effective in determining if purchasing requirements have been updated for changes in
production techniques?

Recalculate parts needed based on current production estimates and the MRP for the revised production techniques. Compare these needs with purchase orders generated from the system for the same period. 
Develop test data to input into the LAN and compare purchase orders generated from test data with purchase orders generated from production data. 
Use generalized audit software to develop a report of excess inventory. Compare the inventory with current production volume 
Select a sample of production estimates and MRPs for several periods and trace them into the system to determine that input is accurate. 
1
Question Explanation
8
Recalculating parts needed based on current information and comparing current purchase orders is the most appropriate procedure to determine the cause of the already known problem. This direct comparison of current parts requirements with purchase orders being generated allows for differences to be identified and corrective action taken. 
The test data approach provides evidence that all items entered are processed. Comparison of these results with currently generated purchase orders does not provide evidence about whether the correct parts are being ordered 
Generalized audit software is a good method to identify an inventory problem. However, the excess inventory may not be the result of a revised production technique. 
This procedure provides evidence about the input of data into the system, but it does not provide evidence about whether changes in the production process have been implemented. 
695

To ascertain that all credit sales are recorded in accounts receivable, an internal auditor should
Confirm selected accounts receivable balances by direct correspondence with customers.
Vouch a sample of subsidiary ledger entries to related sales invoices and to related shipping documents.
Compare a sample of customer purchase orders with related shipping documents.
Trace a sample of shipping documents to related sales invoices and the subsidiary ledger
4
Question Explanation
8
Confirming accounts receivable will not detect an unrecorded and unbilled receivable. 
 Vouching entries will not detect an unrecorded and unbilled receivable. 
Comparing customer orders with shipping documents does not determine whether goods shipped were billed. 
Customer orders should be approved and sales invoices prepared before shipping documents are created. To determine that all credit sales are recorded, the proper direction of testing is from the shipping records, such as bills of lading, to the sales invoices and the accounts receivable subsidiary ledger. 
696
Divisional management stated that a recent gross margin increase was due to increased
efficiency in manufacturing operations. Which of the following audit procedures would be
most relevant to that assertion?

Obtain a physical count of inventory.
Select a sample of products, then compare costs-per-unit this year to those of last year, test cost buildups, and analyze standard cost variances. 
Take a physical inventory of equipment to determine if there were significant changes.
Select a sample of finished goods inventory and trace raw materials cost back to purchase prices in order to determine the accuracy of the recorded raw materials price. 
2
Question Explanation
8
A physical inventory count is useful only to determine whether the gross margin increase was due to overstated inventory. 
. An analysis of operations is relevant to determining the efficiency of operations. An increase in gross margin (sales - cost of sales) may result from an increase in unit sales or cost of sales, a decrease in unit cost of sales, an increase in inventory, or a combination of these factors. An increase in efficiency implies a greater output for a given level of cost. Accordingly, tests of unit costs and cost balance and analysis of variances are relevant procedures. 
Simply counting equipment has little relevance to determining whether manufacturing costs per unit have decreased. The count does not determine whether the new equipment (if any) is more efficient 
This procedure is relevant in determining the correctness of materials purchases, but it does not provide any evidence regarding the efficiency of operations. 
697
One of the objectives of an inventory system audit is to determine whether merchandise levels
are replenished on a timely basis. An appropriate audit procedure for this objective involves
detailed testing of the

Edit program that lists all quantities sold.
Update program that creates new part numbers.
Edit program that lists batch totals for shipments.
Update program that creates new purchase orders.
4
Question Explanation
8
Quantities sold decrease the inventory level but do not reflect replenishment activity. 
New part descriptions indicate activity only for new inventory items.  
Batch totals for shipments would reflect only general information for lower inventory levels  
New purchase orders are evidence of the updating of inventory records for replenishment. An examination of the basis for initiation of orders would determine the timeliness of records. Also, the auditor should monitor perpetual inventory records to determine quantities on hand when restocking shipments are received. 
698
Observation is considered a reliable audit procedure, but one that is limited in usefulness.
However, observation is used in a number of different audit situations. Which of the following
statements is true regarding observation as an audit technique?

Observation is the most effective audit methodology to use in filling out internal control questionnaires. 
Observation is the most persuasive methodology to learn how transactions are really processed during the period under audit. 
Observation is rarely sufficient to satisfy any audit assertion other than existence
Observation is the most persuasive audit technique for determining if fraud has occurred.
3
Question Explanation
8
Interviews are the most effective method to fill out questionnaires. The interview results should be supplemented with observations. 
Observation provides information on how transactions are processed at one moment in time, not how they are processed throughout the period under audit investigation. 
Observation is effective for verifying whether particular assets such as inventory or equipment exist at a given date. However, it is of limited use in addressing other assertions. Thus, it provides less persuasive evidence about the assertions of completeness, rights, valuation, and presentation and disclosure. For example, merely observing inventory does not determine whether the auditee has rights in it. 
The auditor will very seldom be able to observe a fraud.
699
An individual has been assigned to audit the maintenance department of an organization.
Which of the following is likely to produce the least reliable audit evidence?

Notes on discussions with mechanics in the maintenance operation.
A schedule comparing actual maintenance expenses with budgeted expenses and those of the prior period and disclosing important differences. 
A narrative covering review of user reports on maintenance service.
An analysis of changes in certain maintenance department ratios.
1
Question Explanation
8
Although representations by personnel of the auditee are evidence, auditor observation and analysis of documents provide more reliable evidence. 
The comparison provides more reliable evidence relative to the maintenance department's operations. Such documentary evidence is presumably prepared independently of the audited department. 
Reports by users of maintenance services are likewise independent evidence. They are of interest to internal auditors because they bear on the quality of performance. 
Analytical procedures are typically considered more reliable than representations by client personnel 
700
A large university has relatively ineffective internal control. The university&quot;s auditor seeks
assurance that all tuition revenue has been recorded. The auditor could best obtain the desired
assurance by

Confirming a sample of tuition payments with the students.
Observing tuition payment procedures on a surprise basis.
Comparing business office revenue records with registrar's office records of students enrolled. 
Preparing a year-end bank reconciliation.
3
Question Explanation
8
Confirmations of payments do not detect unrecorded receipts.
Observation is a test of controls, not a substantive test of the completeness assertion for the revenue balance. 
 To be assured that all tuition revenue is being recorded, the auditor must perform substantive tests, which are tests of details and analytical procedures to detect misstatements in an account balance, transaction class, or disclosure component. Comparing business office revenue records with registrar's office records of students enrolled provides analytical evidence based on independently generated records. 
Preparing a year'end bank reconciliation would only detect an unrecorded deposit or other cash accounting error. 
701
A firm has recently converted its purchasing cycle from a manual system to an online computer
system. The internal auditor in charge of the first post-implementation audit of the new system
has access to a generalized audit software package. One audit objective is to determine whether
all material liabilities for trade accounts payable have been recorded. Which of the following is
most useful in achieving this objective?

A listing of all purchase transactions processed after the cutoff date.
A listing of all accounts payable ledger accounts with a post office box given as the vendor mailing address. 
A listing of all duplicate purchase orders, receiving reports, and vendor invoices.
A listing of all vendors with a debit balance in the accounts payable ledgers.
1
Question Explanation
8
Examining a listing of all purchase transactions processed after the cutoff date tests the completeness of accounts payable. It investigates the possibility that accounts payable have been recorded in the wrong period. 
Listing payables with post office boxes is useful in the detection of fraud, but has little efficacy in the determination of the completeness of accounts payable. 
Listing duplicate documents is not helpful in the search for all legitimate accounts payable. 
Liability accounts typically have a credit balance. An account payable with a debit balance is often the result of the misclassification of a receivable. The result of such an error is the overstatement of accounts payable. The internal auditor is testing for an understatement of accounts payable. 
702
In a payables application, checks are authorized and paid based on matching purchase orders,
receiving reports, and vendor invoices. Partial payments are common. An appropriate audit
procedure for verifying that a purchase order has not been paid twice is to sort the

Receiving report me by purchase order, compute total amounts received by purchase order, compare total amounts received with purchase order amounts, and investigate any discrepancies between the total amounts received and purchase order amounts. 
Vendor invoice me by purchase order, compute total amounts invoiced by purchase order, compare total amounts invoiced with purchase order amounts, and investigate any discrepancies between the total amounts invoiced and purchase order amounts. 
Receiving report me by vendor invoice amounts and investigate any discrepancies between the total amounts received and vendor invoice amounts. 
Check register me by purchase order, compute total amounts paid by purchase order, compare total amounts paid with purchase order amounts, and investigate any discrepancies between the total amounts paid and purchase order amounts. 
4
Question Explanation
8
The procedure described compares goods received with goods ordered. 
 The procedure described compares goods invoiced by the vendor and goods ordered.  
The procedure described compares goods received and goods invoiced. 
The audit objectives for payables include the discovery of unrecorded liabilities and overpayments. Effective internal control over payments avoids these problems by matching supporting documents, using proper check preparation methods, and providing for stringent authorization procedures. The audit process described tests the effectiveness of internal control over payments in a way that merely tracing a sample of checks to purchase orders could not. 
703
Using a wide variety of solicitation techniques, a large public charity raises funds for medical
research from the general public. In an audit of donations, the internal auditor is least likely to
use which of the following audit procedures?

Written confirmation of a sample of direct mail pledges.
Reconciliation of depository bank accounts.
Surprise observation of door-to-door solicitation teams.
Reconciliation of raffle tickets sold to amounts deposited in the bank.
3
Question Explanation
8
Written confirmation of mail pledges provides evidence of existence. 
Reconciliation of depository bank accounts provides evidence of the completeness of cash. 
An analysis of the instructions given to door-to-door solicitation teams is more appropriate than a surprise observation. The lack of materiality of individual donations, the presence of other controls, and the inability to sample enough teams all make direct observation an inefficient audit procedure. 
Reconciliation of raffle tickets sold to amounts deposited in the bank tests completeness of the raffle revenues. 
704
The internal auditors of a financial institution are evaluating the institution&quot;s investing and
lending activities. During the last year, the institution has adopted new policies and procedures
for monitoring investments and the loan portfolio. The internal auditors know that the
organization has invested in new types of financial instruments during the year and is heavily
involved in the use of financial derivatives to hedge risks appropriately. The audit committee
has expressed concern that the financial institution has been taking on higher-risk loans in
pursuit of short-term profit goals. Which of the following engagement procedures provides the
least amount of information to address this concern?

Perform an analytical review of interest income as a percentage of the investment portfolio in comparison with a group of peer financial institutions. 
Take a random sample of loans made during the period and compare the riskiness of the loans with that of a random sample of loans made 2 years ago. 
Perform an analytical review that involves developing a chart to compare interest income plotted over the past 10 years. 
Develop a multiple-regression time-series analysis of income over the past 5 years including such factors as interest rate in the economy, size of loan portfolio, and monetary amount of new loans each year. 
3
Question Explanation
8
Higher-risk loans should generate higher short-term interest income compared with that earned by comparable institutions. Higher-risk loans have higher yields. 
A historical comparison of loan risk for the institution addresses the engagement objective.  
 . Plotting the changes in interest income over the past 10 years is the least useful procedure. It does not consider other important factors, such as size of the portfolio, changes in interest rates, the development of new financial instruments, the level of inflation, and government regulation. 
. Multiple regression explains the change in a dependent variable (interest income) attributable to two or more independent variables. Thus, it allows the internal auditor to estimate how much of the change might be due to a change in the riskiness of the loans. 
705

	An internal audit activity has stated an engagement objective of determining whether property,
plant, and equipment employed in manufacturing are properly reflected in the accounting
records. Which of the following approaches is likely to be most useful in meeting this
objective?

Interviewing members of the accounting department.
Interviewing members of the accounting department.
Inspecting property, plant, and equipment used in the manufacturing process and tracing to the asset subsidiary ledger. 
Selecting items from the asset subsidiary ledger and recalculating depreciation.
3
Question Explanation
8
Interviewing members of the accounting department does not provide direct information about the existence of property, plant, and equipment. 
 Examining documentation concerning the cost of property, plant, and equipment used in the manufacturing process does not provide direct information about the existence of property, plant, and equipment assets. 
Direct knowledge obtained through the internal auditor's physical observation is the most reliable information about the existence of property, plant, and equipment. Inspecting the assets and tracing them to the asset subsidiary ledger provides specific information about whether they exist and are properly recorded. 
Selecting items form asset subsidiary ledger and recalculating depreciation does not provide direct information about the existence of property, plant, and equipment. 
706
Management of a telephone and cable television enterprise has requested an engagement to evaluate its servic
department. The department is responsible for handling all customer inquiries regarding telephone or cable
performance and assigning staff personnel to fix the problem, installing new cable lines and hooking them up
customer&quot;s home, selling complementary products such as designer telephones, selling complementary servic
as premium cable television services, and additional telephone services such as call-waiting, three-line hooku
Management is very customer oriented and has a policy that 95% of customer complaints or inquiries must ht
addressed to the customer&quot;s satisfaction within 24 hours of receiving the call. All customer service inquiries t
require a service technician must be logged in by the responding service agent. Although the department exisl
handle customer needs, it is also viewed by management as a profit center. All revenue is generated from the
complementary services or equipment and from service revenue. The department has been in existence for on
years and management has not developed a mechanism to evaluate the department&quot;s performance. However,
management is concerned that the department might not be meeting management&quot;s goals.
During the preliminary planning, the following information is gathered.
                         Preliminary Information__         __________
Number of complaints logged
Number of service calls at customer locations
Number of customers
Service call revenue
Sales of complementary services or equipment
Number of support staff
Number of technicians
Total Service Department costs
If the data are correct, which of the following conclusions reached by the internal auditor is justified?

I. The rate of customer complaints logged is decreasing.
II.	. The number of service calls made at customer locations seems to be more closely related to the number
technicians than the number of customer complaints.
III.	I. The average sale of complementary services has remained about the same per customer.

I, II, and III.
land II.
II and III.
II only.
2
Question Explanation
8
Over the last 2 years, the increase in sales of complementary services was 67%, but the increase in the number of customers was only 25%. In previous years, the average customer purchased about US $4 of complementary services. In the current year, this amount has risen to about US $5. 
The rate of customer complaints (customer complaints  number of customers) has decreased each year from approximately 3.4% two years ago to 3.0% in the current year. However, the number of service calls appears to be closely related to the number of technicians (seven in the last 2 years, but only six in the prior year). The number of service calls increased dramatically when an additional technician was hired. 
Over the last 2 years, the increase in sales of complementary services was 67%, but the increase in the number of customers was only 25%. In previous years, the average customer purchased about US $4 of complementary services. In the current year, this amount has risen to about US $5. 
 Item I is also a justifiable conclusion
707
Management of a telephone and cable television enterprise has requested an engagement to evaluate its servic
department. The department is responsible for handling all customer inquiries regarding telephone or cable
performance and assigning staff personnel to fix the problem, installing new cable lines and hooking them up
customer&quot;s home, selling complementary products such as designer telephones, selling complementary servic
as premium cable television services, and additional telephone services such as call-waiting, three-line hooku
Management is very customer oriented and has a policy that 95% of customer complaints or inquiries must ht
addressed to the customer&quot;s satisfaction within 24 hours of receiving the call. All customer service inquiries t
require a service technician must be logged in by the responding service agent. Although the department exisl
handle customer needs, it is also viewed by management as a profit center. All revenue is generated from the
complementary services or equipment and from service revenue. The department has been in existence for on
years and management has not developed a mechanism to evaluate the department&quot;s performance. However,
management is concerned that the department might not be meeting management&quot;s goals.
During the preliminary planning, the following information is gathered.
Information____________
Number of complaints logged
Number of service calls at customer locations
Number of customers
Service call revenue
Sales of complementary services or equipment
Number of support staff
Number of technicians
Total Service Department costs
Based on the data, the internal auditor can justifiably conclude thatI. Total revenue is increasing more rapidly than is total cost.
II.	. The service department is more efficient because revenue has increased dramatically in the current year.
III.	I. The service department is more efficient because revenue has increased by a greater percentage than the
in costs in the current year.
IV.	 The service department has excess capacity because 11 total staff members serviced 1,000,000 custome]
14 total staff members should be able to service more than 1,250,000 customers.

I, II, III, IV.
I, II, and III.
III and IV only.
I only
4
Question Explanation
8
The evidence is not sufficient to reach either conclusion II or III. The increase in revenue may be due more to greater demand by customers or special promotions by the company than to the efficiency of the department. Similarly, conclusion III is not justified because cost seems to be related to the number of employees, and the amount of service performed per staff member, especially technicians, does not show any increase. Conclusion IV is not appropriate because each staff member is supporting over approximately 90,000 customers under both scenarios. Thus, a conclusion of excess capacity is not justified 
The evidence is not sufficient to reach either conclusion II or III. The increase in revenue may be due more to greater demand by customers or special promotions by the company than to the efficiency of the department. Similarly, conclusion III is not justified because cost seems to be related to the number of employees, and the amount of service performed per staff member, especially technicians, does not show any increase. 
The evidence is not sufficient to reach either conclusion III or IV. Conclusion III is not justified because cost seems to be related to the number of employees, and the amount of service performed per staff member, especially technicians, does not show any increase. Conclusion IV is not appropriate because each staff member is supporting over approximately 90,000 customers under both scenarios. Thus, a conclusion of excess capacity is not justified. 
Sales have increased more rapidly than costs. Most of the increase, however, is due to the increase in the average purchase of complementary services per customer. 
708
Management of a telephone and cable television enterprise has requested an engagement to evaluate its servic
department. The department is responsible for handling all customer inquiries regarding telephone or cable
performance and assigning staff personnel to fix the problem, installing new cable lines and hooking them up
customer&quot;s home, selling complementary products such as designer telephones, selling complementary servic
as premium cable television services, and additional telephone services such as call-waiting, three-line hooku
Management is very customer oriented and has a policy that 95% of customer complaints or inquiries must ht
addressed to the customer&quot;s satisfaction within 24 hours of receiving the call. All customer service inquiries t
require a service technician must be logged in by the responding service agent. Although the department exisl
handle customer needs, it is also viewed by management as a profit center. All revenue is generated from the
complementary services or equipment and from service revenue. The department has been in existence for on
years and management has not developed a mechanism to evaluate the department&quot;s performance. However,
management is concerned that the department might not be meeting management&quot;s goals.
During the preliminary planning, the following information is gathered.
                         Preliminary Information____________
Number of complaints logged
Number of service calls at customer locations
Number of customers
Service call revenue
Sales of complementary services or equipment
Number of support staff
Number of technicians
Total Service Department costs
The best engagement procedure to determine whether the organization is meeting its objective of satisfying 9
customer inquiries within 24 hours is to

Select an attribute sample from the population of logged-in customer complaints and trace to records inc its disposition, noting time and nature of disposition. 
Develop a customer satisfaction survey and send it to all customers, and include a question about the tin of service. 
Develop a customer satisfaction survey and send it to a statistically selected sample of customers based per-unit sampling and ask them to identify the time it took for the service department to satisfactorily ad their problem. Calculate a mean and standard deviation. 
Select a mean-per-unit statistical sample from the total population base and trace the sample to the custc complaint log to determine whether or not 95% of the sample had their complaints addressed within 24 
1
Question Explanation
8
The best method is to take an attribute sample from the log of customer complaints. Whether inquiries have been satisfied promptly is a yes/no, either/or proposition appropriate for this sampling method. The sampled items should be traced to documentation that should evidence the completion of customer service. 
Surveying all customers would be costly. The procedure also has two additional faults: (1) the customer might not recall the time necessary for the repair, and (2) the customer might not respond. 
Surveying a sample of customers suffers from the same two faults noted above. Moreover, MPU is a variables sampling technique that is appropriate for testing values, not binary propositions. 
Sampling from the total customer population is inefficient. Not all customers have complained during the year. Also MPU is inappropriate. 
709
Management of a telephone and cable television enterprise has requested an engagement to evaluate its servic
department. The department is responsible for handling all customer inquiries regarding telephone or cable
performance and assigning staff personnel to fix the problem, installing new cable lines and hooking them up
customer&quot;s home, selling complementary products such as designer telephones, selling complementary servic
as premium cable television services, and additional telephone services such as call-waiting, three-line hooku
Management is very customer oriented and has a policy that 95% of customer complaints or inquiries must ht
addressed to the customer&quot;s satisfaction within 24 hours of receiving the call. All customer service inquiries t
require a service technician must be logged in by the responding service agent. Although the department exisl
handle customer needs, it is also viewed by management as a profit center. All revenue is generated from the
complementary services or equipment and from service revenue. The department has been in existence for on
years and management has not developed a mechanism to evaluate the department&quot;s performance. However,
management is concerned that the department might not be meeting management&quot;s goals.
During the preliminary planning, the following information is gathered.
                         Preliminary Information____________
Number of complaints logged
Number of service calls at customer locations
Number of customers
Service call revenue
Sales of complementary services or equipment
Number of support staff
Number of technicians
Total Service Department costs
The internal auditor wishes to investigate whether the number of service calls is based more on the number OJ
technicians than on the number of complaints that actually merit service. The following are four engagement
procedures that would be performed in sequence. Indicate when the internal auditor should have sufficient inf
to reach a conclusion on the assertion.
rvice calls per service technician
step 1:Perform an analytical review by comparing the number of se
step 2:Obtain the customer complaint backlog file and determine the extent to which there is a and determine the average number of calls per year by technician. backlog of service complaints that need to be addressed. Calculate an average number of backlogged complaints per technician.
step 3:Send a confirmation to all customers who are shown on the backlog of complaints requesting information on the length of time for the backlog.
step 4:Based on the customer's response in Step 3, calculate an average number of backlog complaints and determine the number of new service technicians that would have to be added to address the complaints.
2
Question Explanation
8
Step 1 establishes a relationship between service calls and service technicians but does not address the demand factor. 
 Step 1 establishes that the number of service calls is directly correlated with the number of technicians. Step 2 supplements Step 1 by gathering information regarding the backlog of service complaints. The absence of a backlog would suggest that the increase in service calls is more closely related to the number of technicians than to increased demand between service calls and service technicians, but both are related to the demand for such service.  
Information from customers shown on the backlog is no better than that obtained in Step 2. 
Information from customers shown on the backlog is no better than that obtained in Step 2 
710
Which of the following is the primary advantage of using an internal control questionnaire?
A.	 The questionnaire provides a clear picture of the interrelationships that exist between the various controls. 
The questionnaire reduces the risk of overlooking important aspects of the system.
The questionnaire forces an internal auditor to acquire a full understanding of the system.
The negative responses indicate the only areas needing further engagement work.
2
Question Explanation
8
The understanding can only be obtained by applying a variety of procedures, including but not limited to use of questionnaires, observation, interviews, flowcharting, and examination of documentation. 
An internal control questionnaire consists of a series of questions about control designed to prevent or detect errors or fraud. Answers to the questions help the internal auditor to identify specific controls relevant to specific assertions and to design tests of controls to evaluate the effectiveness of their design and operation. The questionnaire provides a framework to assure that specific concerns are not overlooked, but it is not a sufficient means of understanding the entire system. 
The understanding can only be obtained by applying a variety of procedures, including but not limited to use of questionnaires, observation, interviews, flowcharting, and examination of documentation. 
Tests of compliance must still be performed to determine whether controls said to be in use are actually in place and operating effectively. 
711
Select the appropriate population from which to draw a sample when the engagement objective
is to evaluate compliance with controls designed to ensure that all shipments are billed.

Prenumbered customer invoices.
Customer accounts receivable.
Prenumbered shipping documents.
Cash receipts records.
3
Question Explanation
8
. Sampling invoices will not detect shipments that have not been invoiced. 
 Sampling receivables will not detect shipments that have not been invoiced. 
The proper direction of testing is from the shipping documents to the billing documents. Tracing a sample of the shipping documents to customer invoices tests whether each recorded shipment has been billed.  
Sampling cash receipts will not detect shipments that have not been invoiced. 
712
During the year-end physical inventory process, the internal auditor observed items of
significant value staged in the shipping area and marked &quot;Sold - Do Not Irlventory.&quot;  The
customer had been on credit hold for 3 months because of bankruptcy proceedings, but the sales
manager had ordered the shipping supervisor to treat the inventory as sold for physical
inventory purposes. The internal auditor noted the terms of sale were FOB Warehouse. After
confirming no change in organizational policy, the internal auditor should

Recommend that the inventory staged in the shipping area be counted and included along with the rest of the physical inventory results 
Make test counts and trace the results to appropriate records to ensure that the cost is properly relieved from inventory. 
Follow up with appropriate procedures to ensure that the inventory staged in the shipping area appears on related invoicing documentation. 
Request copies of the signed bills of lading to include with working papers for this physical inventory. 
1
Question Explanation
8
The physical inventory process is a periodic control to ensure that sales- related controls are effective. Improperly excluding inventory from physical count inflates revenues and profitability for the current period. The only issue is whether the items should be included. Given that payment is unlikely to be remitted because of the bankruptcy proceedings, the inventory will ultimately be resold and therefore should be included in the physical count. 
The inventory has not been sold and transacted according to established procedures. 
The inventory has not been sold and transacted according to established procedures. 
The inventory has not been sold and transacted according to established procedures. 
713
A manufacturer&quot;s inventory includes a significant investment in precious metals. The internal
auditors&quot; review of management&quot; s system of internal controls over these items most likely
includes
I. Reviewing procedures to ensure that the value of the materials is properly stated on the
balance sheet.
II.	. Reviewing materials acquisition forms for approvals and tracing release forms to
perpetual inventory records to verify that inventory is issued upon proper authorization.
III.	I. Observing inventory transactions to ascertain if materials thefts are occurring.
IV.	 Reviewing the manufacturing department&quot;s system for comparing the usage of these
metals with standards

III and IV
I and IV.
I only.
II and III.
2
Question Explanation
8
Observing inventory transactions is not likely to identify materials thefts. 
An internal auditor must conduct substantive tests to verify the reported inventory valuation, for example, by observing inventory taking, considering the quality of inventory on hand, and testing inventory pricing. In the case of precious metals, market prices may be volatile. Furthermore, a fundamental component of the control loop is comparison of actual results with standards (e.g., budgeted amounts). 
The internal auditor should review procedures for comparing actual and budgeted usage. 
Tracing inventory issuance forms to inventory records does not ensure proper authorizations. Instead, the inventory issuance forms should be compared with authorized materials requisitions. 
714
The internal audit activity has been assigned to perform an engagement involving a division.
Based on background review, the internal auditor knows the following about management
policies:
*  Organizational policy is to rapidly promote divisional managers who show significant
success. Thus, successful managers rarely stay at a division for more than 3 years.
*  A significant portion of division management&quot;s compensation comes in the form of
bonuses based on the division&quot;s profitability.
The division was identified by senior management as a turnaround opportunity. The division is
growing but is not scheduled for a full audit by the external auditors this year. The division has
been growing about 7% per year for the past 3 years and uses a standard cost system.
During the preliminary review, the internal auditor notes the following changes in financial data
compared with the prior year:
Sales have increased by l0%.
*  Cost of goods sold has increased by 2%.
*  Inventory has increased by 15%.
*  Divisional net profit has increased by 8%.
If the internal auditor decides that significant problems exist in the standard cost system, the
next procedure to perform is to

Interview divisional management to determine why the standard cost system has not been updated on a timely basis. 
Select a random sample of products and review the standard cost buildup by tracing purchases to the standard cost record. 
Use generalized audit software to prepare a listing of gross margin by product by comparing standard cost with sales price. Select all high gross margin items for further investigation. 
Schedule all variances and determine their source and their disposition, i.e., whether they are allocated to inventory or cost of goods sold. 
4
Question Explanation
8
Interviewing management to determine why the standard costs have not been updated is premature when the internal auditor does not yet have information that the standard costs are misstated. 
Tracing purchases to the standard cost record is insufficient. The internal auditor also needs to test for proper allocation of labor and overhead costs. 
Selecting products with high gross margins may have merit, but there is no indication that higher gross margin products are the ones with standard cost problems. 
A problem with standard costs will be indicated by variances. Because variance analysis is an analytical procedure, it is not costly and provides the best direction for further detailed testing. Moreover, improper disposition of significant variances may contribute to misstatement of cost of sales and inventories. 
715
Checklists used to assess risk have been criticized for all of the following reasons except
Providing a false sense of security that all relevant factors are addressed.
Inappropriately implying equal weight to each item on the checklist
Decreasing the uniformity of data acquisition.
Being incapable of translating the experience or sound reasoning intended to be captured by each item on the checklist. 
3
Question Explanation
8
A checklist may omit factors the importance of which could not be foreseen. 
Each item will not be of equal significance
Checklists increase the uniformity of data acquisition. They ensure that a standard approach to assessing risk is taken and minimize the possibility of omitting consideration of factors that can be anticipated. 
A checklist does not substitute for the sound professional judgment needed to understand the process of assessing risk. 
716
The most effective audit procedure for determining the collectibility of an account receivable is
the

Confirmation of the account.
Examination of the related sales invoice(s).
Review of the subsequent cash collections.
Review of authorization of credit sales to the customer and the previous history of collections. 
3
Question Explanation
8
A confirmation of the account provides evidence that a contract exists and that the debtor acknowledges the debt. Confirmation tends to be more effective in providing evidence about the existence than the valuation (collectibility) assertion. 
er Examination of the related sales invoice(s) is a test of the validity, not the collectibility, of a receivable. 
Collectibility pertains to the assertion of valuation. It is the principal issue with regard to the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts. The best way to determine collectibility is to learn whether the receivable was subsequently collected. Reviewing the subsequent collection of the receivable is the only means of gaining complete assurance that the amount will be paid. 
Experience is a good indicator of collectibility but is not as good as collection. 
717
The annual internal audit plan includes an audit of a sales discount campaign. Concern has
arisen about the size of the discount in relation to the effectiveness of the campaign. The
engagement procedures least likely to provide relevant information about the effectiveness of
the campaign is

A.	 A comparison of the profit margin before and during the campaign.
A comparison of the cost of goods sold before and during the campaign.
A comparison of sales of the discounted products before and during the campaign.
A comparison of total revenue before and during the campaign.
2
Question Explanation
8
The profit margin is useful in determining the most effective discount. 
PA 2210- 1 states, 'Internal auditors establish engagement objectives to address the risks associated with the activity under review. For planned engagements, the objectives are consistent with those initially identified during the risk assessment process from which the internal audit plan is derived. For unplanned engagements, the objectives are established prior to the start of the engagement and are designed to address the specific issue that prompted the engagement. After identifying risks, the auditor determines the procedures to be performed and the scope of those procedures. Engagement procedures performed within the appropriate scope are the means to derive conclusions related to the engagement objectives.'  The audit objective is to determine the effectiveness of the campaign. A comparison of the COGS before and during the campaign may be import to management for other reasons, but it is irrelevant to determining the effectiveness of the discounts. Thus, it is outside the scope of the audit. 
. A comparison of sales of discounted products is useful in determining the effectiveness of discounting. 
 A comparison of total revenue is useful in determining the effectiveness of discounting. 
718
A farm cooperative sets acceptable levels of annual spoilage for each year. The following
procedure that does not evaluate the effectiveness of controls related to annual spoilage is

Reviewing shipping reports for deliveries returned by customers.
Inspecting current inventory.
Interviewing field workers about spoilage.
Surveying managers about labor benefits.
4
Question Explanation
8
A review of returned goods may reveal additional spoiled goods.
An inspection of current inventory will reveal the volume of goods likely to spoil.  
 Interviewing field workers may reveal the volume of goods that spoil in the field  
The objective is to evaluate the effectiveness of controls related to annual spoilage. Engagement procedures performed within the appropriate scope are the means to derive conclusions about the engagement objectives. A survey of managers concerning labor benefits has nothing to do with spoilage levels. 
719
In an audit of a shipping department, the internal auditors conducted a survey to become
familiar with its operations. The survey included interviewing key personnel using formal
questionnaire. The disadvantage of this procedure is that the interviewer is

Less likely to record information not specifically addressed in the questionnaire.
Able to ask clarifying questions.
Face-to-face with the interviewee.
May ask questions requiring an explanatory response.
1
Question Explanation
8
Questionnaires (I) are difficult to prepare, (2) are time-consuming to administer, (3) cannot address all circumstances, and (4) permit interviewees to anticipate preferred responses. Interviews are preferable because they give interviewers greater freedom to pursue promising lines of inquiry. Furthermore, a questionnaire tends to limit the focus of the interviewer. (S)he is less likely to address responses not within the parameters of the questionnaire. 
It is an advantage to be able to ask clarifying questions.
It is an advantage to be face-'to-face with the interviewee.
It is an advantage to ask questions requiring an explanatory response. 
720
A           manufacturer uses a materials requirements planning (MRP) system to track inventory,
orders, and raw material requirements. A preliminary audit assessment indicates that the
organization&quot;s inventory is understated. Using audit software, what conditions should the
auditor search for in the MRP database to support this hypothesis?
I. Item cost set at zero.
II.	. Negative quantities on hand.
III.	I. Order quantity exceeding requirements.
IV.	 Inventory lead times exceeding delivery schedule

land II only.
I and IV only.
II and IV only.
III and IV only.
1
Question Explanation
8
If there is no monetary amount in the database for existing inventory, inventory will be understated. Moreover, inadequate edit checks or uncontrolled borrow/paybacks could cause negative quantities to be reported. This condition would cause inventory to be understated. If the amount ordered exceeds requirements, the result is an increase in inventory. However, by itself, this condition would not cause inventory to be understated or overstated. Also, if lead times are longer than delivery times, the effect is an increase in inventory but not necessarily a misstatement. 
 If there is no monetary amount in the database for existing inventory, inventory will be understated. Moreover, inadequate edit checks or uncontrolled borrow/paybacks could cause negative quantities to be reported. This condition would cause inventory to be understated. If the amount ordered exceeds requirements, the result is an increase in inventory. However, by itself, this condition would not cause inventory to be understated or overstated. Also, if lead times are longer than delivery times, the effect is an increase in inventory but not necessarily a misstatement. 
If there is no monetary amount in the database for existing inventory, inventory will be understated. Moreover, inadequate edit checks or uncontrolled borrow/paybacks could cause negative quantities to be reported. This condition would cause inventory to be understated. If the amount ordered exceeds requirements, the result is an increase in inventory. However, by itself, this condition would not cause inventory to be understated or overstated. Also, if lead times are longer than delivery times, the effect is an increase in inventory but not necessarily a misstatement. 
If there is no monetary amount in the database for existing inventory, inventory will be understated. Moreover, inadequate edit checks or uncontrolled borrow/paybacks could cause negative quantities to be reported. This condition would cause inventory to be understated. If the amount ordered exceeds requirements, the result is an increase in inventory. However, by itself, this condition 
721
The current engagement relating to disbursement activities shows a significant number of errors
made during the accounts payable vouchering process that have resulted in lost discounts and
an extraordinary number of adjustments and credit memos. To date, the causes have not been
fully identified for all types of errors noted. The most appropriate course of action for the
internal auditor to take related to these problems is to

Describe the transaction-related problems identified to date in a special report to management without expressing a cause or an auditor's conclusion about the situation. 
Concentrate on audit program requirements for cash disbursements testing to discover any related information from those tests. 
Interview accounts payable clerks and those involved in processing these transactions.
Expand sample sizes for attributes already tested in transactions entered by accounts payable and purchasing. 
3
Question Explanation
8
The internal auditor is interested in gathering feedback on the causes of the errors. 
 Cash disbursements testing will show results of transaction processing after the vouchering process has been performed and corrections have been posted to the system. This information will not provide additional feedback on the causes of the errors. 
The three methods of gathering feedback include observing, analyzing, and questioning. Interviewing the personnel and others involved in the accounts payable vouchering process is the most appropriate action. 
Expanding sample sizes will generate more factual information about error rates in these attributes, but it will not provide feedback on the causes of the errors. 
722
As a particular engagement is being planned in a high-risk area, the chief audit executive
determines that the available staff does not have the requisite skills to perform the assignment.
The best course of action consistent with engagement planning principles is to

Not perform the engagement because the requisite skills are not available.
Use the engagement as a training opportunity and let the internal auditors learn as the engagement is performed 
Consider using external resources to supplement the needed knowledge, skills, and other competencies and complete the assignment. 
Perform the engagement but limit the scope in light of the skill deficiency.
3
Question Explanation
8
Not performing the engagement is unacceptable, especially for a high-risk area. 
 Engagements must be properly supervised. The IAA has no one to provide this supervision 
In determining the resources needed to perform the engagement, the CAE must consider the knowledge, skills, and other competencies of the internal audit staff when selecting internal auditors for the engagement. The CAE considers the use of external resources when additional knowledge and competencies are required (PA 2230- I). 
Limiting the scope of the engagement is done only when the requisite skills are not available even from external resources. If the scope is limited, management must be informed of the constraint in an interim report. 
723
The chief audit executive of a multinational organization must form an engagement team to
examine a newly acquired subsidiary in another country. Consideration should be given to
which of the following factors?
I. Local customs
II.	. Language skills of the internal auditor
III.	I. Experience of the internal auditor
IV.	 Monetary exchange rate

I, II, and III.
II, III, and IV.
land III.
land II.
1
Question Explanation
8
Internal auditors must determine appropriate and sufficient resources to achieve engagement objectives based on an evaluation of the nature and complexity of each engagement, time constraints, and available resources (Standard 2230). Thus, the knowledge, skills, and other competencies of the internal audit staff must be considered when selecting internal auditors for the engagement (PA 2230- I). Thus, in an engagement to be performed in a foreign country, the language skills of the internal auditor and knowledge of local customs must be considered. For example, gender and ethnic issues may be important in some countries because of religious restrictions and incompatibilities. As always, experience levels are relevant in making staff assignments. 
 The exchange rate is irrelevant to determining the needed traits of the team members. 
The language skills of the internal auditor must be considered.
Experience must always be considered.
724
The purpose of including a time budget in an engagement work program is to
Provide an objective means of evaluating the internal auditor's competence.
Ensure timely completion of the engagement.
Provide a means of controlling and evaluating the progress of the engagement.
Restrict the scope of the engagement.
1
Question Explanation
8
Whether an internal auditor remains within the time budget is affected by many factors other than professional competence. 
The establishment of a budget cannot ensure that work will be completed on a timely basis. 
Internal auditors must develop and document work programs to achieve the engagement objectives (Standard 2240). The work program lists the procedures to be followed during the engagement. Moreover, the process of collecting, analyzing, interpreting, and documenting information is to be supervised to provide reasonable assurance that objectivity is maintained and objectives are met (PA 2240- I). Accordingly, a work program is a useful tool for scheduling and controlling (supervising) the engagement. Supervision includes, among other things, ensuring that the approved work program is completed unless changes are justified and authorized (PA 2340- I). For this purpose, a time budget is necessary to evaluate and control the progress of the engagement. It permits comparison of the actual time spent on a procedure with its allotted time. 
 A time budget is not intended to limit the scope of the engagement. 
725
Which of the following statements is true with respect to a time budget for an internal audit
engagement?

Requests for time budget adjustments should be approved by the audit committee.
Time budgets should be strictly adhered to, regardless of circumstances.
Time budgets should be used for financial audits, but not for operational audits.
Time budgets should normally be prepared in terms of hours or days.
4
Question Explanation
8
Requests for time budget adjustments should be approved by the CAE, not the audit committee. 
 Budgets should be subject to adjustment for unexpected conditions. 
Time budgets are equally applicable to all types of engagements. 
A budget is a plan that contains a quantitative statement of expected results. It may be defined as a quantified program.  All engagement projects and other assignments must be kept under budgetary control. Time budgets for engagement projects are usually prepared in employee-hours or employee-days. 
726
The best control over the work on which internal auditors&quot; opinions are based is
Supervisory review of all engagement work.
Preparation of time budgets for internal audit activities.
Preparation of engagement working papers.
Staffing of internal audit activities.
1
Question Explanation
8
The engagement must be properly supervised to ensure objectives are achieved, quality is ensured, and staff is developed (Standard 2340). Supervision includes (I) ensuring the auditors possess the requisite knowledge, skills, and other competencies; (2) providing appropriate instructions during planning and approving the work program; (3) ensuring the approved work program is complete unless changes are justified and authorized; (4) determining working papers adequately support observations, conclusions, and recommendations; (5) ensuring communications are accurate, objective, clear, concise, constructive, and timely; (6) ensuring objectives are met; and (7) providing opportunities for developing internal auditors' knowledge, skills, and other competencies (PA 2340- I). Hence, supervision is a control that encompasses all aspects of engagements. 
 Although useful, time budgets do not ensure the adequacy of work. 
Working papers support the conclusions and engagement results, but supervision is necessary to ensure the adequacy of work. 
 Proper staffing is required, but supervision is essential to ensure the adequacy of work. 
727
Which of the following activities does not constitute engagement supervision?
Preparing a preliminary engagement work program.
Providing appropriate instructions to the internal auditors.
Reviewing engagement working papers.
Ensuring that engagement communications meet appropriate criteria.
1
Question Explanation
8
The engagement must be properly supervised to ensure objectives are achieved, quality is assured, and staff is developed (Standard 2340). Supervision includes, among other things, (I) providing appropriate instructions during the planning of the engagement and approving the work program; (2) determining that working papers adequately support observations, conclusions, and recommendations; and (3) ensuring that communications are accurate, objective, clear, concise, constructive, and timely (PA 2340- I). Preparing a preliminary engagement work program is part of engagement planning but not an aspect of engagement supervision. 
Providing appropriate instructions to the internal auditors is an aspect of engagement supervision. 
Reviewing engagement working papers is an aspect of engagement supervision. 
. Ensuring that engagement objectives are achieved is an aspect of engagement supervision. 
728
Which of the following best describes what determines the extent of supervision required for a
particular internal audit engagement?

Whether the engagement involves possible fraud on the part of management.
Whether the engagement involves possible violations of laws or governmental regulations 
The proficiency of the internal auditors and the complexity of the engagement.
The internal audit activity's prior experience in dealing with the particular engagement client. 
3
Question Explanation
8
 Whether the engagement involves possible fraud on the part of management is less important for determining the extent of supervision than the proficiency of the internal auditors and the complexity of the engagement. 
Whether the engagement involves possible violations of laws or governmental regulations is less important for determining the extent of supervision than the proficiency of the internal auditors and the complexity of the engagement 
The CAE is responsible for providing appropriate engagement supervision. The extent of supervision required will depend on the proficiency and experience of the internal auditors and the complexity of the engagement (Standard 2340 and Interpretation). 
The internal audit activity' s prior experience in dealing with the particular engagement client is less important for determining the extent of supervision than the proficiency of the internal auditors and the complexity of the engagement. 
729
A           new staff internal auditor&quot;s first assignment is to review the cash management operations of
the organization. The staff internal auditor has no background in cash management. Under
which of the following conditions would this arrangement be appropriate?
I. The senior internal auditor is skilled in the area and closely supervises the staff internal
auditor.
II. The staff internal auditor performs the work and prepares an engagement communication

A.	 I only
II only.
Both I and II.
Neither I nor II.
1
Question Explanation
8
Engagements must be properly supervised to ensure that objectives are achieved, quality is assured, and staff is developed (Standard 2340). Moreover, supervision includes ensuring that designated auditors collectively possess the necessary knowledge, skills, and other competencies to perform the engagement (PA 2340-I). The extent of supervision depends on the proficiency and experience of the internal auditors and the complexity of the engagement (interpretation). Thus, the skill of the senior auditor and the closeness of the supervision compensate for the new auditor's inexperience regarding cash management. 
Supervision involves far more than a review of the engagement communication. 
The internal auditors assigned to the engagement must have or obtain the necessary proficiency, and the staff internal auditor must be closely supervised 
The internal auditors assigned to the engagement must have or obtain the necessary proficiency, and the staff internal auditor must be closely supervised. 
730
Which of the following best describes engagement supervision?
The manager of each engagement has the ultimate responsibility for supervision.
Supervision is primarily exercised at the final review stage of an engagement to ensure the accuracy of the engagement communications 
Supervision is most important in the planning phase of the engagement to ensure appropriate coverage. 
Supervision is a continuing process beginning with planning and ending with the conclusion of the engagement. 
4
Question Explanation
8
The CAE has the ultimate responsibility for supervision.
Supervision begins with planning and continues throughout the engagement  
Supervision is equally important in all phases of the engagement
 The CAE (or designee) provides appropriate engagement supervision. Supervision is a process that begins with planning and continues throughout the engagement (PA 2340- 1). 
731
Supervision of an internal audit engagement includes
Determining that engagement working papers adequately support the engagement observations. 
Assigning staff members to the particular engagement.
Determining the scope of the engagement.
Appraising each internal auditor's performance on at least an annual basis.
1
Question Explanation
8
Supervision includes ensuring that the engagement working papers adequately support the engagement observations, conclusions, and recommendations (PA 2340-1). 
The plan for an engagement includes resource allocations (Standard 2200). Thus, resource allocation is a planning function, not a supervisory function. 
 Determining the engagement scope is a planning function, not a supervisory function. 
Appraising performance on an annual basis is not a supervisory function of a specific engagement but is part of the management of the human resources of the internal audit activity (PA 2030- 1). 
732
The chief audit executive is responsible for engagement supervision. The most important form
of supervision during the field work phase of engagements involves

Ensuring that the approved engagement work program is completed unless changes are justified and authorized. 
Providing suitable instructions to subordinates at the outset of the engagement and approving the engagement work program 
Appraising each internal auditor's performance at least annually.
Making sure that communications are accurate, objective, clear, concise, constructive, and timely. 
1
Question Explanation
8
Supervision includes (I) ensuring the auditors possess the requisite knowledge, skills, and other competencies; (2) providing appropriate instructions during planning and approving the work program; (3) ensuring the approved work program is complete unless changes are justified and authorized; (4) determining working papers adequately support observations, conclusions, and recommendations; (5) ensuring communications are accurate, objective, clear, concise, constructive, and timely; (6) ensuring objectives are met; and (7) providing opportunities for developing internal auditors' knowledge, skills, and other competencies (PA 2340- I). Execution of the work program requires supervision during field work. The other supervisory tasks generally are carried out before or after field work. 
 'At the outset of the engagement' is not during field work. 
Annual performance appraisal is not specific to a particular engagement.  
Engagement communications are prepared at the conclusion of field work. 
733
Which of the following items does not constitute evidence of proper supervision of an internal
auditing engagement?

An internal audit manager approves the engagement work program and gives instructions to subordinates at the outset of the engagement, and is available for consultation, but does not actively participate in the performance of procedures. 
An internal audit manager is not intimately involved in an engagement, but does review the results to ensure that all engagement objectives are being met. 
A senior internal auditor continuously deviates from the approved engagement work program, but consistently completes the engagement within the approved time budget. The time budget is approved by the internal audit manager, and compliance with the time budget is reviewed by the internal audit manager. 
The internal audit manager carefully reviews all analytical procedures performed by internal audit seniors during the preliminary planning for an engagement to determine if the conclusions are justified. 
3
Question Explanation
8
 Supervision includes approving the engagement work program; providing suitable instructions to subordinates; ensuring objectives were met and that engagement communications are accurate, timely, objective, clear, concise, and constructive; and determining that working papers adequately support the observations, conclusions, and recommendations. 
Supervision includes approving the engagement work program; providing suitable instructions to subordinates; ensuring objectives were met and that engagement communications are accurate, timely, objective, clear, concise, and constructive; and determining that working papers adequately support the observations, conclusions, and recommendations. 
Supervision includes determining that the approved engagement work program is carried out unless deviations are both justified and authorized (PA 2340- 1). Accordingly, the deviations from the planned engagement work program by the senior internal auditor should be approved by a supervisor. 
 Supervision includes approving the engagement work program; providing suitable instructions to subordinates; ensuring objectives were met and that engagement communications are accurate, timely, objective, clear, concise, and constructive; and determining that working papers adequately support the observations, conclusions, and recommendations. 
734
When engagements are performed for the internal audit activity by nonstaff members, the chief
audit executive is responsible for

Ensuring that the engagement communications are objective, clear, and timely.
Reviewing the engagement work programs for approval.
Providing appropriate supervision from the beginning to the conclusion of the engagement. 
None of the engagement work performed by those outside the department.
3
Question Explanation
8
Ensuring the quality of engagement communications is only one facet of supervision for which the CAE has ultimate, although perhaps not immediate, responsibility. 
Approval of the engagement work program prior to the commencement of work by the CAE or a designee (PA 2240.A I -I) is only one facet of supervision for which the CAE has ultimate, although perhaps not immediate, responsibility. Answer (C) is correct 
The CAE is responsible for assuring that appropriate supervision is provided for all internal auditing assignments, whether performed by or for the IAA. Supervision is a process that begins with planning and continues throughout the engagement (PA 2340- I). 
 The CAE is responsible for all work performed by or for the IAA. 
735
Of the many tools available to assist an internal auditing supervisor, which of the following is
of least assistance in the supervision of a specific engagement?

Assignment board.
Time budget.
Weekly status report.
Time report.
1
Question Explanation
8
An assignment board is a cork board that uses assignment slips and numbered tack heads to display the scheduled engagements weekly for up to a year. It provides an overview of which staff members are working on each project and is therefore of minimal assistance in the actual supervision of a specific engagement. 
A time budget is a tool for supervising a specific engagement. 
A weekly status report is a tool for supervising a specific engagement. 
A time report is a tool for supervising a specific engagement.
736
During a meeting of an internal audit project team, two members of the team disagree, and one
accuses the other of trying to advance personal interests over the interests of the audit. The
audit manager should

Discipline both auditors after the meeting for their lack of professional conduct.
Continue the meeting but speak to the accusing auditor later regarding the inappropriate conduct 
Meet with both auditors after the meeting to resolve the conflict and the inappropriate behavior 
Stop the meeting and refer the matter to the entire team for discussion.
3
Question Explanation
8
 The manager should address the behavior and not miss the opportunity for coaching and conflict resolution with both staff members. Answer  
Although one auditor has behaved improperly, both auditors allowed the situation to occur, and both should be involved in its resolution to protect team morale and effectiveness.
 Effective interpersonal relationships and organizational change are closely tied to conflict management. Meeting with both auditors after the meeting allows both parties to discuss and resolve their differences under the supervision of the audit manager. Moreover, part of the CAE's responsibility for supervision is to adopt suitable policies and procedures for resolving professional differences (PA 2340- 1). 
This conflict is not a matter for the entire team to address. The team may be advised after the resolution but should not be involved in a disciplinary action by the manager. 
737
A manager responsible for the supervision and review of other internal auditors needs the
necessary skills, knowledge, and other competencies. Which of the following does not describe
a skill, knowledge, or other competency necessary to supervise a particular engagement?

The ability to review and analyze an engagement work program to determine whether the proposed engagement procedures will result in information relevant to the engagement's objectives. 
Assuring that an engagement communication is supported and accurate relative to the information documented in the engagement working papers. 
Using risk assessment and other judgmental processes to develop an engagement work schedule for the internal audit activity and present the schedule to the board.
Determining that staff auditors have completed the engagement procedures and that engagement objectives have been met. 
3
Question Explanation
8
Supervision includes approving the engagement work program; determining that the engagement working papers support observations, conclusions, and recommendations; and making certain that engagement objectives have been met (PA 2340- I). 
 Supervision includes approving the engagement work program; determining that the engagement working papers support observations, conclusions, and recommendations; and making certain that engagement objectives have been met (PA 2340-I).  
The CAE, not a manager, should establish risk-based plans to determine the priorities of the IAA, consistent with the organization's goals (Standard 20 l0). The planning process involves establishing goals, engagement work schedules, staffing plans and financial budgets, and activity reports (PA 2010- I). The CAE should communicate the IAA's plans and resource requirements, including significant interim changes, to senior management and the board for review and approval (PA 2020- I). Supervision includes approving the engagement work program; determining that the engagement working papers support observations, conclusions, and recommendations; and making certain that engagement objectives have been met (PA 2340-I).  
Supervision includes approving the engagement work program; determining that the engagement working papers support observations, conclusions, and recommendations; and making certain that engagement objectives have been met (PA 2340-I). 
738
The engagement team leader is least likely to have a primary role in
Allocating budgeted engagement hours among assigned staff.
Updating the permanent files
Reviewing the working papers.
Preparing the critique sheet for the engagement.
2
Question Explanation
8
Allocating budgeted engagement hours among assigned staff is a planning task. 
The engagement team leader (sometimes called a senior) is responsible for planning the engagement, coordinating the staff, and supervising the work. Updating the permanent files is a task most likely performed by the staff 
Reviewing the working papers is a supervisory activity.
Preparing the critique sheet for the engagement is also a supervisory activity performed by the engagement team leader. 
739
Procedures describing how the supervisory review of staff auditors will be accomplished should
be fully documented so that the internal audit activity will

Comply with the Standards.
Have a consistent framework for evaluating staff performance
Have a basis for promotions, pay raises, or disciplinary actions, if required.
 Have substantiation of its quality assurance and improvement program.
2
Question Explanation
8
Compliance with the Standards is just one element of a quality assurance and improvement program. 
The internal audit activity' s quality assurance and improvement program (QAIP) should include (I) supervision, (2) periodic internal assessments and monitoring of quality assurance, and (3) periodic external assessments (PA 1300- I). Moreover, appropriate evidence of supervision should be documented and retained (Interpretation of Standard 2340). Presumably, such documentation includes the framework for evaluating staff performance. 
Having a basis for promotions, etc., follows from a proper evaluation of auditor performance. 
Substantiating the QAIP program is a significant but secondary result of documenting supervisory review. 
740
Supervision of the work of internal auditors should be carried out continually. Which of the
following statements regarding supervision is(are) true?
I. &quot;Continually&quot; indicates that supervision should be performed throughout the engagement.
II.	. Supervision also should be extended to development of the competencies of internal
auditors.
III.	I. The extent of supervision needs to be documented.

lonly.
land III only.
II only.
I, II, and III.
4
Question Explanation
8
Statements II and III are true.
Statement II is true
Statements I and III are true.
Supervision is a process that begins with planning and continues throughout the engagement. It includes providing opportunities for developing internal auditors' knowledge, skills, and other competencies (PA 2340- I). Appropriate evidence of supervision should be documented and retained. The extent of supervision required will depend on the proficiency and experience of internal auditors and the complexity of the engagement (Interpretation of Standard 2340). 
741
Engagement work programs testing controls ordinarily must
Be specifically designed for each operation evaluated.
Be generalized to fit all situations without regard to departmental lines.
Be generalized so as to be usable at all locations of a particular department.
Reduce costly duplication of effort by ensuring that every aspect of an operation is examined. 
1
Question Explanation
8
. A work program must be adapted to the specific needs of the engagement after the internal auditor establishes the engagement objectives and scope and determines the resources required. A pro forma (standard) work program is not appropriate for a complex or changing environment. Its stated objectives and procedures may no longer be relevant. 
A work program must allow for variations resulting from changing circumstances and varied conditions. 
A generalized program cannot consider variations in circumstances and conditions. 
Every aspect of an operation need not be examined. Only those likely to conceal problems and difficulties must be considered 
742
An internal auditor has just completed a survey to become familiar with the organization&quot;s
payroll operations as part of an unplanned engagement. Which of the following most likely is
performed next?

Assign internal audit personnel.
Establish initial engagement objectives.
Write the engagement work program.
Conduct field work.
3
Question Explanation
8
Internal audit personnel are usually assigned before the survey.
 Initial engagement objectives are established prior to the start of an unplanned engagement. They address the issues that prompted the engagement (PA 2210- I). Accordingly, objectives are specified before the survey. 
Internal auditors (I) consider management's assessment of risk, (2) obtain or update background information, and (3) may conduct a survey (PA 2210-Al -I). The work program lists the procedures to be followed during the engagement (Glossary). Thus, the work program is most likely to be written after the risk assessment, the review of background information, and survey. The work program is normally prepared after the survey. The survey allows the internal auditor to become familiar with the engagement client and therefore provides input to the work program. 
Field work can be performed only after the work program has been written and approved. Thus, field work does not normally follow the survey. 
743
In the preparation of an engagement work program, which of the following items is least
essential?

The performance of a preliminary risk assessment.
A review of material from prior engagement communications.
The preparation of a budget identifying the costs of resources needed.
A review of criteria established by management to determine whether operating goals and objectives have been accomplished. 
3
Question Explanation
8
The preliminary risk assessment is required. Objectives must reflect this assessment (Standard 221 O.Al). 
Engagement communications contain, among other things, information about observations from prior engagements and corrective actions taken. 
Standard 2230 states, 'Internal auditors must determine appropriate and sufficient resources to achieve engagement objectives based on an evaluation of the nature and complexity of each engagement, time constraints, and available resources.'  Hence, it is implicit that the work program state the resources necessary to carry out the detailed tasks specified. However, quantification of costs is not essential to writing the work program. 
Internal auditors must ascertain the extent to which management has established adequate criteria to determine whether objectives and goals have been accomplished (Standard 221 O.A3). 
744
Writing an engagement work program most likely occurs at which stage of the engagement?
During the planning stage.
Subsequent to evaluating risk management and control systems.
As the engagement is performed.
At the end of each engagement when the standard work program should be revised for the next engagement to ensure coverage of noted problem areas. 
1
Question Explanation
8
Standard 2200 states, 'Internal auditors must develop and document a plan for each engagement'  Thus, Standard 2240 states, 'Internal auditors must develop and document work programs that achieve the engagement objectives.' Furthermore, internal auditors develop, and obtain documented approval of, work programs before commencing the engagement (PA 2240- 1). Accordingly, work programs are prepared during the planning stage. 
 The work program states the procedures to be followed during the engagement (Glossary). Hence, it normally is written in the planning stage. 
 The work program normally is written during the planning stage, not as the engagement is performed. However, the work program may be modified during the engagement. 
Although revising the work program at the end of one engagement for the next engagement is allowed, it should still be written during the planning phase. 
745
A work program for a comprehensive assurance engagement to evaluate a purchasing function
should include

Procedures arranged by relative priority based upon perceived risk.
A statement of the engagement objectives for the operation under review with agreement by the engagement client. 
 Procedures to accomplish engagement objectives.
A focus on risks affecting the financial statements as opposed to controls.
3
Question Explanation
8
Engagement procedures normally are arranged in an order that will most efficiently complete the work program 
Engagement objectives are stated, but they do not need to be agreed to by the engagement client. 
 Work programs are a necessary part of engagement planning. They must include the procedures for identifying, analyzing, evaluating, and documenting information during the engagement. Work programs must be approved prior to their implementation, and any adjustments must be approved promptly (Standard 2240.Al ). 
The engagement should not be narrowly focused on the reliability and integrity of financial information. 
746
Which of the following is not ordinarily considered an essential criterion for developing
engagement work programs?

Description of the objectives of the engagement client operation to be evaluated.
Specificity as to the controls to be tested.
Specificity as to procedures to be followed.
Specificity as to the methodology to be used for the engagement procedures.
4
Question Explanation
8
Work programs are developed to achieve the engagement objectives. 
. The work program states the procedures to be followed during the engagement (Glossary). Hence, it normally is written in the planning stage. These include procedures for testing controls 
The work program must include the engagement procedures necessary to achieve engagement objectives. 
Work programs are a necessary part of engagement planning. They consist of the specific work steps required for the engagement, but they must allow for some flexibility. Thus, they may be modified, provided that adjustments are approved promptly 
747
Which of the following is a step in an engagement work program?
The engagement will commence in 6 weeks and include tests of compliance with laws, regulations, and contracts 
A determination is made concerning whether the manufacturing operations are effective and efficient. 
Internal auditors may not reveal engagement observations to nonsupervisory, operational personnel during the course of this engagement. 
The methods used to identify defective units produced are observed.
4
Question Explanation
8
A partial statement of the scope and the proposed starting time are not engagement procedures. 
 Determination of whether operations are effective and efficient is an engagement objective 
A prohibition on revealing observations is a rule for the conduct of the internal auditors. 
A prohibition on revealing observations is a rule for the conduct of the internal auditors. 
748
The internal audit activity is planning a 3-year effort to perform engagements at all branches of
a large international car rental agency. Management is especially concerned with standardized
operation of the accounting, car rental, and inventory functions. What type of work program is
most appropriate for this project?

A pro forma program developed and tested by the internal audit activity.
Individual programs developed by the internal auditor-in-charge after a preliminary survey of each branch. 
C.checklist of branch standard operating procedures. . 
An industry-developed engagement guide
1
Question Explanation
8
A pro forma work program is designed to be used for repeated engagements related to similar operations. It is ordinarily modified over a period of years in response to problems encountered in the field. This type of program assures at least minimum coverage, provides comparability, and saves resources when operations at different locations have similar activities, risks, and controls. 
Use of work programs specifically designed for each branch may conflict with management' s desire for standardization. 
. A checklist of branch standard operating procedures is only one input into the development of a work program. 
An industry guide might not meet the specific needs of the organization. 
749

A standard engagement work program is not appropriate for which situation?

A stable operating environment undergoing only minimal changes.
A complex or changing operating environment.
Multiple locations with similar operations
Subsequent engagements to provide assurance about inventory performed at same location. 
2
Question Explanation
8
A standard work program is appropriate for use in a minimally changing operating environment. It may save effort and provide continuity 
. A standard work program is not appropriate for a complex or changing operating environment. The engagement objectives and related procedures may no longer be relevant.  
A standard work program can be used for engagements at multiple locations with similar operations if the same activities, risks, and controls are present. 
A standard work program is acceptable for conducting subsequent inventory engagements at the same location if the inventory functions performed have not varied substantially. 
750
What action should an internal auditor take upon discovering that an area was omitted from the
engagement work program?

Document the problem in the engagement working papers and take no further action until instructed to do so. 
Perform the additional work needed without regard to the added time required to complete the engagement. 
Continue the engagement as planned and include the unforeseen problem in a subsequent engagement. 
Evaluate whether completion of the engagement as planned will be adequate.
4
Question Explanation
8
 The internal auditor must determine whether changes in the work program are needed. 
 Changes in the engagement budgets must be authorized by appropriate  
An engagement in the unforeseen area may be necessary to achieve current engagement objectives. 
Work programs are necessarily tentative because the internal auditors are likely to encounter unexpected situations while carrying out the detailed work. If they learn that an area is not covered, they must determine whether they can achieve the engagement objectives and satisfy their professional responsibilities without modification of the work program. Modification will necessitate consultation with supervisors to obtain authorization to adjust time and financial budgets. 
751
Fieldwork is a systematic process of objectively gathering information about an entity&quot;s
operations, evaluating it, and determining whether those operations meet acceptable standards.
Which of the following is not part of the work performed during fieldwork?

Expanding or altering engagement procedures if circumstances warrant.
Applying the engagement work program to accomplish engagement objectives.
Creating working papers that document the engagement.
Developing a written engagement work program.
4
Question Explanation
8
Engagement procedures, including the testing and sampling techniques employed, should be selected in advance, if practicable and expanded or altered if necessary. Thus, work programs may be modified during the fieldwork, that is, during the course of the engagement. 
Fieldwork involves carrying out the work program to identify, analyze, evaluate, and record sufficient information to achieve the engagement objectives.  
Working papers are prepared during fieldwork to record the information obtained and the analyses made and to support the bases for the observations, conclusions, and recommendations to be reported (PA 2330- 1).  
Internal auditors must develop and document a plan for each engagement (Standard 2200). As a part of engagement planning, internal auditors must develop and document a work program to achieve the engagement objectives (Standard 2240). Hence, a work program is not developed during fieldwork, although it may be modified at that time. 
752
The action taken by an internal auditor who discovers a significant area not included in the
engagement work program should be to

Evaluate whether completion of the engagement as planned will be adequate.
Perform the additional work deemed necessary without regard to the additional time needed to complete the engagement. 
Continue the engagement as planned and include the unforeseen area in a subsequent engagement. 
Document the observation in the working papers and take no further action until instructed to do so. 
1
Question Explanation
8
Engagement work programs must be developed to achieve the engagement objectives (Standard 2240). A work program documents engagement procedures selected in advance but should be modified, as appropriate, during the course of the engagement (PA 2200- 1). A work program must be approved prior to its implementation and any adjustments approved promptly (Standard 2240.Al ). Work programs are necessarily tentative because the internal auditors are likely to encounter unexpected situations while performing detailed procedures. If they learn that a significant area is not covered, the internal auditors must determine whether they can achieve the engagement objectives and satisfy their professional responsibilities without modification of the work program. Modification will necessitate consultation with superiors to obtain authorization to adjust time and financial budgets. 
Changes in the engagement budgets should be authorized by appropriate persons. 
Review of the unforeseen area may be necessary to achieve current engagement objectives. 
The internal auditor must determine whether changes in the work program are needed. 
753
To determine the extent of testing to be performed during field work, preparing the engagement
work program should be the next step after completing the


Survey of company policies.
Assignment of audit staff.
Time budgets for specific audit tasks.
1
Question Explanation
8
Planning includes performing, if appropriate, a survey to become familiar with the activities, risks, and controls to be reviewed; to identify areas for engagement emphasis; and to invite comments and suggestions from engagement clients (PA 2210.Al- 1). Writing the work program is the next step. 
This survey is not a sufficient basis for a work program, which is a detailed listing of engagement procedures. 
Staff assignments are made prior to the preliminary survey.
Time budgets for specific tasks are determined as part of the preparation of the work program. 
754
The engagement work program should be approved
No later than the conclusion of engagement work.
By the engagement client or designee.
Orally in some circumstances.
In writing by the board.
3
Question Explanation
8
Approval should be prior to the commencement of work.
The engagement work program should be approved by the CAE or designee. 
An engagement work program must be approved prior to its implementation. Adjustments must be approved promptly. Initial approval may be obtained orally if circumstances preclude obtaining written approval prior to commencing engagement work. 
The engagement work program should be approved by the CAE or designee. 
755
A docket is to a judge as what is to an auditor performing an engagement?
Audit documentation.
Audit report.
Work program.
Charter.
3
Question Explanation
8
. Internal auditors use working papers to document relevant information to support the conclusions and engagement results. Although specific types of working papers (i.e., work programs) track audit progress as a docket tracks the workload of a judge, working papers in general cover a broad range of purposes. 
The audit report includes the auditor's findings and recommendations. A court docket tracks the workload. It does not record outcomes and the basis for them. 
Internal auditors must develop and document work programs that achieve the engagement objectives (Standard 2240). Work programs establish the procedures for collecting, analyzing, interpreting, and documenting information during the engagement. During the engagement, each procedure is signed off to indicate that the work has been completed. Like a court docket, a work program is used to keep track of the events/workload (i.e., audit procedures/court cases) to be accomplished. 
The charter defines the IAA's purpose, authority, and responsibility. The charter does not track the audit workload in the same way as a docket tracks the workload of the court. 
756
An internal auditing supervisor reviewed the system of controls and the organizational
objective of the purchasing department. What facet of engagement planning was the supervisor
developing?

Internal auditing policy manual.
Engagement work schedule.
Engagement work program.
Internal auditing budget.
3
Question Explanation
8
 An internal auditing policy manual provides guidelines for all operations of the IAA. 
An engagement work schedule describes what activities are to be performed, when they will be performed, and the estimated time required  
 Internal auditors must develop and document work programs that achieve the engagement objectives (Standard 2240). The work program states the objectives of the engagement; identifies technical requirements, objectives, risks, processes, and transactions that are to be examined; states the nature and extent of testing required; documents the internal auditor's procedures for collecting, analyzing, interpreting, and documenting information during an engagement; and is modified, as appropriate, during the engagement with the approval of the chief audit executive (CAE), or his/her designee (PA 2200- I). Before work programs are developed, the internal auditor should review background information (e.g., organizational objectives and goals) and, if appropriate, conduct a survey. The survey involves becoming familiar with activities, risks, and controls; identifying areas for engagement emphasis; and inviting comments and suggestions from engagement clients (PA 2210.A I -I). 
An internal auditing budget embraces all activities for a specified period, not details of work on a given engagement. 
757
A primary purpose of establishing a code of conduct within a professional organization is to

Reduce the likelihood that members of the profession will be sued for substandard work
Ensure that all members of the profession perform at approximately the same level of competence
Promote an ethical culture among professionals who serve others
Require members of the profession to exhibit loyalty in all matters pertaining to the affairs of their organization
3
Question Explanation
9
Although this result may follow from establishing a code of conduct, it is not the primary purpose. To consider it so would be self-serving. 
 A code of conduct may help to establish minimum standards of competence, but it would be impossible to legislate equality of competence by all members of a profession. 
The IIA Code of Ethics is typical. Its purpose is 'to promote an ethical culture in the profession of internal auditing'  The definition of internal auditing states that it is 'an independent, objective assurance and consulting activity.' Moreover, internal auditing is founded on 'the trust placed in its objective assurance about risk management, control, and govemance.'  The IIA Code of Ethics further emphasizes that it provides guidance to internal auditors 'serving others.' 
In some situations, responsibility to the public at large may conflict with and be more important than loyalty to one's organization
758
In analyzing the differences between two recently merged businesses, the chief audit executive
of Organization A notes that it has a formal code of ethics and Organization B does not. The
code of ethics covers such things as purchase agreements, relationships with vendors, and other
issues. Its purpose is to guide individual behavior within the firm. Which of the following
statements regarding the existence of the code of ethics in A can be logically inferred?
I. A exhibits a higher standard of ethical behavior than does B.
. A has established objective criteria by which an individual&quot;s actions can be evaluated.
I. The absence of a formal code of ethics in B would prevent a successful review of ethical
behavior in that organization.

 land II. 
II only. 
III only
II and III. 
2
Question Explanation
9
 The mere existence of A's code of ethics does not assure that its tenets are followed. 
A formal code of ethics effectively communicates acceptable values to all members, provides a method of policing and disciplining members for violations, establishes objective standards against which individuals can measure their own performance, and communicates the organization's value system to outsiders
A review of ethical behavior is not dependent on the existence of a formal code of ethics. Policies, however, may provide the criteria for such an engagement. 
 A review of ethical behavior is not dependent on the existence of a formal code of ethics. Policies, however, may provide the criteria for such an engagement. 
759
An accounting association established a code of ethics for all members. What is one of the
association&quot; s primary purposes of establishing the code of ethics?

To outline criteria for professional behavior to maintain standards of integrity and objectivity
To establish standards to follow for effective accounting practice
To provide a framework within which accounting policies could be effectively developed and executed
To outline criteria that can be used in conducting interviews of potential new accountants
1
Question Explanation
9
The IIA Code of Ethics includes Principles and Rules of Conduct. Internal auditors are expected to apply and uphold four principles:  integrity, objectivity, confidentiality, and competence
National standard-setting bodies, not a code of ethics, provide guidance for effective accounting practice. 
A code of ethics does not provide the framework within which accounting policies are developed.
 The primary purpose is not for interviewing new accountants. 
760
A code of conduct was developed several years ago and distributed by a large financial
institution to all its officers and employees. What is the internal auditor&quot;s best approach to
providing the board with the highest level of comfort about the code of conduct?

Fully evaluate the comprehensiveness of the code and compliance with it and report the results to the board. 
Fully evaluate organizational practices for compliance with the code, and report to the board. 
Review employee activities for compliance with provisions of the code, and report to the board. 
Perform tests on various employee transactions to detect potential violations of the code of conduct. 
1
Question Explanation
9
When evaluating a code of conduct, it is important to consider two items:  comprehensiveness and compliance. The code should address the ethical issues that the employees are expected to encounter and provide suitable guidance. The internal auditor also must consider the extent to which employees are complying with the standards established. 
Evaluating practices and reporting to the board is not the best approach. 
Reviewing employee activities does not provide as much comfort about the code of conduct as evaluation of comprehensiveness.
Performing tests on employee transactions is not the best approach. 
761
A review of an organization&quot; s code of conduct revealed that it contained comprehensive
guidelines designed to inspire high levels of ethical behavior. The review also revealed that
employees were knowledgeable of its provisions. However, some employees still did not
comply with the code. What element should a code of conduct contain to enhance its
effectiveness?

Periodic review and acknowledgment by all employees. 
Employee involvement in its development
Public knowledge of its contents and purpose
Provisions for disciplinary action in the event of violations
4
Question Explanation
9
Periodic review and acknowledgment would ensure employee knowledge and acceptance of the code, which are not at issue
Employee involvement in development would encourage employee acceptance, which is not at issue.
 Public knowledge might affect the behavior of some individuals but not to the same extent as the perceived likelihood of sanctions for wrongdoing
Penalties for violations of a code of conduct should enhance its effectiveness. Some individuals will be deterred from misconduct if they expect it to be detected and punished. 
762
The best reason for establishing a code of conduct within an organization is that such codes
Are typically required by governments
Express standards of individual behavior for members of the organization. 
Provide a quantifiable basis for personnel evaluations
Have tremendous public relations potential. 
2
Question Explanation
9
Governments typically have no such requirement
An organization's code of ethical conduct is the established general value system the organization wishes to apply to its members' activities by communicating organizational purposes and beliefs and establishing uniform ethical guidelines for members, which include guidance on behavior for members in making decisions. Because laws and specific rules cannot cover all situations, organizations can benefit from having an established ethical code. It effectively communicates acceptable values to all members, including recruits and subcontractors. It also provides a method of policing and disciplining members for violations through formal review panels and group pressure (informal). A code establishes high standards against which individuals can measure their own performance and communicates to those outside the organization the value system from which its members must not be asked to deviate. 
 Codes of conduct provide qualitative, not quantitative, standards. 
 Other purposes of a code of conduct are much more significant. 
763
Which of the following statements is not appropriate to include in a manufacturer&quot;s conflict of
interest policy? An employee shall not

 Accept money, gifts, or services from a customer
Participate (directly or indirectly) in the management of a public agency. 
Borrow from or lend money to vendors
A conflict of interest policy should prohibit financial dealings between an employee and those with whom the organization deals
2
Question Explanation
9
A conflict of interest policy should prohibit the transfer of benefits between an employee and those with whom the organization deals. 
A prohibition on public service is ordinarily inappropriate. Public service is a right, if not a duty, of all citizens.
A conflict of interest policy should prohibit financial dealings between an employee and those with whom the organization deals
The IIA Code of Ethics prohibits use of information for personal gain (Rule of Conduct 3.2). 
764
The code of ethics of a professional organization sets forth

Broad standards of conduct for the members of the organization
The organizational details of the profession's governing body.
 The organizational details of the profession's governing body are stated in the by'laws of a professional organization
A basis for the measurement of internal audit performance
1
Question Explanation
9
An organization's code of ethical conduct is the established general value system the organization wishes to apply to its members' activities by communicating organizational purposes and beliefs and establishing uniform ethical guidelines for members, which include guidance on behavior for members in making decisions. Because laws and specific rules cannot cover all situations, organizations benefit from having an established ethical code. It effectively communicates acceptable values to all members, including recruits and subcontractors. It also provides a method of policing and disciplining members for violations through formal review panels and group pressure (informal). A code establishes high standards against which individuals can measure their own performance and communicates to those outside the organization the value system from which the organization's members must not be asked to deviate. 
 The organizational details of the profession's governing body are stated in the by'laws of a professional organization
 Certain actions may be legal, but contrary to an organization's code of ethics. For example, an internal auditor may not perform a service for which (s)he does not possess the necessary knowledge, skills, and experience. 
The Standards establish a basis for the measurement of internal audit performance. 
765
The chief audit executive (CAE) has been appointed to a committee to evaluate the
appointment of the external auditors. The engagement partner for the external accounting firm
wants the CAE to join her for a week of hunting at her private lodge. The CAE should

Accept, assuming both their schedules allow it. 
Refuse on the grounds of conflict of interest
Accept as long as it is not charged to employer time
Ask the comptroller whether accepting the invitation is a violation of the organization's code of ethics
2
Question Explanation
9
The auditor should not accept. 
Under Rule of Conduct 2.1, 'Internal auditors shall not participate in any activity or relationship that may impair or be presumed to impair their unbiased assessment. This participation includes those activities or relationships that may be in conflict with the interests of the organization'  Furthermore, under Rule of Conduct 2.2, 'Internal auditors shall not accept anything that may impair or be presumed to impair their professional judgment.' 
Not charging the time to the company is not sufficient to eliminate conflict-of-interest concerns
 The auditor should know that accepting the invitation raises conflict of interest issues. 
766
The IIA Code of Ethics requires internal auditors to perform their work with
Honesty, diligence, and responsibility
Timeliness, sobriety, and clarity. 
Knowledge, skills, and competencies
Punctuality, objectivity, and responsibility
1
Question Explanation
9
 Four mies are stated under the integrity principle. According to Rule             of Conduct I . I of The IIA Code of Ethics, 'Internal auditors shall perform their work             with honesty, diligence, and responsibility.' 
 Timeliness, sobriety, and clarity are not mentioned in the Code
Knowledge, skills, and competencies are mentioned in the Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing. 
Punctuality is not mentioned in the Code. 
767
A CIA is working in a nonintemal-auditing position as the director of purchasing. The CIA
signed a contract to procure a large order from the supplier with the best price, quality, and
performance. Shortly after signing the contract, the supplier presented the CIA with a gift of
significant monetary value. Which of the following statements regarding the acceptance of the
gift is true?

Acceptance of the gift is prohibited only if it is not customary
Acceptance of the gift violates The IIA Code of Ethics and is prohibited for a CIA.
Because the CIA is no longer acting as an internal auditor, acceptance of the gift is governed only by the organization's code of conduct. 
Because the contract was signed before the gift was offered, acceptance of the gift does not violate either The IIA Code of Ethics or the organization's code of conduct. 
2
Question Explanation
9
 Acceptance of the gift could easily be presumed to have impaired the CIA's professional judgment. 
 Members of The Institute of Internal Auditors and recipients of, candidates for, IIA professional certifications are subject to disciplinary action for breaches of The IIA Code of Ethics. Rule of Conduct 2.2 states, 'Internal auditors shall not accept anything that may impair or be presumed to impair their professional judgment.' 
The CIA is still governed by The IIA's code of conduct
The timing of signing the contract is irrelevant
768
During the course of an engagement, an internal auditor discovers that a clerk is embezzling
funds from the organization. Although this is the first embezzlement ever encountered and the
organization has a security department, the internal auditor decides to interrogate the suspect. If
the internal auditor is violating The IIA Code of Ethics, the rule violated is most likely

Failing to exercise due diligence
Lack of loyalty to the organization
Lack of competence in this area. 
Failing to comply with the law
3
Question Explanation
9
The requirement to perform work with diligence does not override the competency Rules of Conduct or the need to use good judgment
Loyalty is better exhibited by consulting professionals and knowing the limits of competence. 
 Rule of Conduct 4.1 under the competency principle states, 'Internal auditors shall engage only in those services for which they have the necessary knowledge, skills, and experience.' Internal auditors may not have and are not expected to have knowledge equivalent to that of a person whose primary responsibility is to detect and investigate fraud. 
The internal auditor may violate the suspect's civil rights as a result of inexperience. 
769
Internal auditors who fail to maintain their proficiency through continuing education could be
found to be in violation of

The International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing
The IIA's Code of Ethics
Both the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing and The IIA's Code of Ethics
None of the answers are correct
3
Question Explanation
9
The Code and the SPPIA would be violated.
The Code and the SPPIA would be violated
The IIA's Code of Ethics (Rule of Conduct 4.3) states, 'Internal auditors shall continually improve their proficiency and the effectiveness and quality of their services.'  The Code also requires compliance with the Standards (Rule of Conduct 4.2). Furthermore, Standard 1230 states, 'Internal auditors should enhance their knowledge, skills, and competencies through continuing professional development' Hence, both The IIA's Code of Ethics and the Standards are violated by failing to earn continuing education credits. 
The Code and the SPPIA would be violated
770
In a review of travel and entertainment expenses, a certified internal auditor questioned the
business purposes of an officer&quot;s reimbursed travel expenses. The officer promised to
compensate for the questioned amounts by not claiming legitimate expenses in the future. If the
officer makes good on the promise, the internal auditor

Can ignore the original charging of the nonbusiness expenses
Should inform the tax authorities in any event. 
Should still include the finding in the final engagement communication. 
Should recommend that the officer forfeit any frequent flyer miles received as part of the questionable travel.
3
Question Explanation
9
The possibly fraudulent behavior of the officer is a material fact that should be reported regardless of whether the questioned expenses are reimbursed. 
The Standards require the CAE to disseminate results to the appropriate individuals (Standard 2440). However, communication of results outside the organization is not required in the absence of a legal mandate. 
Rule of Conduct 2.3 states, 'Internal auditors shall disclose all material facts known to them that, if not disclosed, may distort the reporting of activities under review.' 
Management should determine what constitutes just compensation. 
771
During an engagement performed at a manufacturing division of a defense contractor, the
internal auditor discovered that the organization apparently was inappropriately adding costs to
a cost-plus governmental contract. The internal auditor discussed the matter with senior
management, which suggested that the internal auditor seek an opinion from legal counsel.
Upon review, legal counsel indicated that the practice was questionable but was not technically
in violation of the government contract. Based on legal counsel&quot;s decision, the internal auditor
decided to omit any discussion of the practice in the final engagement communication sent to
senior management and the board. However, the internal auditor did informally communicate
legal counsel&quot;s decision to senior management. Did the internal auditor violate The IIA&quot;s Code
of Ethics?

No. The internal auditor followed up the matter with appropriate personnel within the organization and reached a conclusion that no fraud was involved
No. If a fraud is suspected, it should be resolved at the divisional level where it is taking place.
Yes. It is a violation because all important information, even if resolved, should be reported to the board
Yes. Internal legal counsel's opinion is not sufficient. The internal auditor should have sought advice from outside legal counsel. 
1
Question Explanation
9
Although an argument can be made that the internal auditor should report the matter to the board and senior management, there is no indication that the internal auditor is deliberately withholding material facts that, if not disclosed, may distort reports of activities under review (Rule of Conduct 2.3). Hence, no violation of the Code occurred.
Material fraud, if suspected, should be brought to the attention of management. However, in this case, the internal auditor gathered sufficient information to dispel the suspicion of fraud. 
The internal auditor did not deliberately withhold important information. 
The internal auditor has gathered sufficient information. Internal legal counsel's opinion appears to be sufficient
772
In applying the Rules of Conduct set forth in The IIA Code of Ethics, internal auditors are
expected to

Not be unduly influenced by their own interests in forming judgments. 
Compare them with standards of other professions
Be guided by the desires of the engagement client
Use discretion in deciding whether to use them. 
1
Question Explanation
9
According to the objectivity principle stated in The IIA Code of Ethics, internal auditors exhibit the highest level of professional objectivity in gathering, evaluating, and communicating information about the activity or process being examined. Internal auditors make a balanced assessment of all the relevant circumstances and are not unduly influenced by their own interests or by others in forming judgments. 
Standards of other professions are not intended to provide guidance to internal auditors serving others. 
 Auditors should be independent of the engagement client
Internal auditors must follow The IIA Code of Ethics
773
The IIA Rules of Conduct set forth in The IIA Code of Ethics

Describe behavior norms expected of internal auditors
Are guidelines to assist internal auditors in dealing with engagement clients
Are interpreted by the Principles
Apply only to particular conduct specifically mentioned
1
Question Explanation
9
 A code of ethics is necessary and appropriate for the profession of internal auditing, founded as it is on the trust placed in its objective assurance about risk management, control, and governance. The Institute's Code of Ethics extends beyond the definition of internal auditing to include two essential components:  (I) Principles that are relevant to the profession and practice of internal auditing and (2) Rules of Conduct that describe behavior norms expected of internal auditors. These rules are an aid to interpreting the Principles into practical applications and are intended to guide the ethical conduct of internal auditors. 
The Rules of Conduct provide guidance to internal auditors in the discharge of their responsibility to all those whom they serve. Engagement clients are not the only parties served by internal auditing
The Rules of Conduct are an aid in interpreting the Principles
The conduct may be unacceptable or discreditable although not mentioned in the Rules of Conduct. 
774
Which of the following is permissible under The IIA Code of Ethics?

Disclosing confidential, engagement-related information that is potentially damaging to the organization in response to a court order. 
Using engagement-related information in a decision to buy an ownership interest in the employer organization
Accepting an unexpected gift from an employee whom the internal auditor has praised in a          recent engagement communication
Not reporting significant observations and recommendations about illegal activity to the board because management has indicated it will address the issue
1
Question Explanation
9
Under Rule of Conduct 1.2, 'Internal auditors shall observe the law and make disclosures expected by the law and the profession.'  Thus, the requirement not to use information in any manner detrimental to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization (Rule of Conduct 3.2) does not override the legal obligation to respond to a court order. 
 Rule of Conduct 3.2 prohibits internal auditors from using information for personal gain. 
Rule of Conduct 2.2 prohibits internal auditors from accepting anything that may impair or be presumed to impair their professional judgment. 
Rule of Conduct I .3 prohibits knowingly being a party to any illegal activity. Internal auditors must also disclose all material facts known to them that, if not disclosed, might distort the reporting of activities under review (Rule of Conduct 2.3). 
775
An internal auditor working for a chemical manufacturer believed that toxic waste was being
dumped in violation of the law. Out of loyalty to the organization, no information regarding the
dumping was collected. The internal auditor

Violated the Code of Ethics by knowingly becoming a party to an illegal act. 
Violated the Code of Ethics by failing to protect the well'being of the general public
Did not violate the Code of Ethics. Loyalty to the employer in all matters is required
Did not violate the Code of Ethics. Conclusive information about wrongdoing was not gathered. 
1
Question Explanation
9
 Rule of Conduct 1.3 prohibits knowingly being a party to any illegal activity. Internal auditors must also disclose all material facts known to them that, if not disclosed, might distort the reporting of activities under review (Rule of Conduct 2.3). The internal auditor apparently also failed to perform his/her work with diligence (Rule of Conduct 1 .1). 
The IIA Code of Ethics does not impose a duty to the general public. 
An internal auditor may not use information in any manner detrimental to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization (Rule of Conduct 3.2) and must respect and contribute to such objectives (Rule of Conduct 1.4). However, illegal dumping of toxic waste is neither legitimate nor ethical.
The internal auditor should have collected and reported such information in accordance with the SPPIA
776
An internal auditor discovered some material inefficiencies in a purchasing function. The
purchasing manager is the internal auditor&quot;s next-door neighbor and best friend. In accordance
with The IIA Code of Ethics, the internal auditor should

Objectively include the facts of the case in the engagement communications
Not report the incident because of loyalty to the friend
Include the facts of the case in a special communication submitted only to the friend
Not report the friend unless the activity is illegal. 
1
Question Explanation
9
Under Rule of Conduct 2.3, 'Internal auditors shall disclose all material facts known to them that, if not disclosed, may distort the reporting of activities under review.' Furthermore, under Rule of Conduct 1.4, 'Internal auditors shall respect and contribute to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization.' 
This action is at variance with the internal auditor's duties
 This action is at variance with the internal auditor's duties.
This action is at variance with the internal auditor's duties
777
An internal auditor for a large regional bank was asked to serve on the board of directors of a
local bank. The bank competes in many of the same markets as the regional bank but focuses
more on consumer financing than on business financing. In accepting this position, the internal
auditor
I. Violates The IIA Code of Ethics because serving on the board may be in conflict with the
best interests of the internal auditor&quot;s employer
II. Violates The IIA Code of Ethics because the information gained while serving on the
board of directors of the local bank may influence recommendations regarding potential
acquisitions

I only. 
II only
land II. 
Neither I nor II. 
3
Question Explanation
9
 Serving on the board of the local bank creates a conflict of interest and may prejudice the internal auditor' s ability to perform his or her duties. 
Serving on the board of the local bank creates a conflict of interest and may prejudice the internal auditor' s ability to perform his or her duties
 Under Rule of Conduct 2.1, 'Internal auditors shall not participate in any activity or relationship that may impair or be presumed to impair their unbiased assessment. This participation includes those activities or relationships that may be in conflict with the interests of the organization'  Accordingly, service on the board of the local bank constitutes a conflict of interest and may prejudice the internal auditor' s ability to carry out objectively his or her duties regarding potential acquisitions. 
Serving on the board of the local bank creates a conflict of interest and may prejudice the internal auditor' s ability to perform his or her duties
778
Which of the following concurrent occupations could appear to subvert the ethical behavior of
an internal auditor?

Internal auditor and a well-known charitable organization's local in-house chairperson. 
Internal auditor and part-'time business insurance broker.
Internal auditor and adjunct faculty member of a local business college that educates potential employees
Internal auditor and landlord of multiple housing that publicly advertises for tenants in a local community newspaper listing monthly rental fees. 
2
Question Explanation
9
 The activities of a charity are unlikely to be contrary to the interests of the organization. 
Under Rule of Conduct 2.1, 'Internal auditors shall not participate in any activity or relationship that may impair or be presumed to impair their unbiased assessment. This participation includes those activities or relationships that may be in conflict with the interests of the organization.'  As a business insurance broker, the internal auditor may lose his or her objectivity because (s)he might benefit from a change in the employer's insurance coverage. 
Teaching is compatible with internal auditing. 
Whereas dealing in commercial properties might involve a conflict, renting residential units most likely does not. 
779
Internal auditors should be prudent in their relationships with persons and organizations
external to their employers. Which of the following activities will most likely not adversely
affect internal auditors&quot; ethical behavior?

Accepting compensation from professional organizations for consulting work. 
Serving as consultants to competitor organizations
Serving as consultants to suppliers.
Discussing engagement plans or results with external parties. 
1
Question Explanation
9
 Professional organizations are unlikely to be employees, clients, customers, suppliers, or business associates of the organization. Hence, the consulting fees are not likely to impair or be presumed to impair the internal auditors' professional judgment (Rule of Conduct 2.2). Moreover, relationships with professional organizations are not likely to create a conflict of interest or impair or be presumed to impair internal auditors' unbiased judgment (Rule of Conduct 2.1). Also, the consulting engagement should not result in the improper use of information (Rule of Conduct 3.2). 
Serving as a consultant to competitors might create a conflict of interest. 
 Serving as a consultant to suppliers might create a conflict of interest. 
Internal auditors should 'be prudent in the use and protection of information acquired in the course of their duties' (Rule of Conduct 3.1). Furthermore, such discussion might be 'detrimental to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization' (Rule of Conduct 3.2).
780
An internal auditor has been assigned to an engagement at a foreign subsidiary. The internal
auditor is aware that the social climate of the country is such that &quot;facilitating payments&quot;
(bribes) are an accepted part of doing business. The internal auditor has completed the
engagement and has found significant weaknesses relating to important controls. The
subsidiary&quot;s manager offers the internal auditor a substantial &quot;facilitating payment&quot; to omit the
observations from the final engagement communication with a provision that the internal
auditor could revisit the subsidiary in 6 months to verify that the problem areas have been
properly addressed. The internal auditor should

Not accept the payment because such acceptance is in conflict with the Code of Ethics. 
Not accept the payment, but omit the observations as long as a verification visit is made in 6          months
Accept the offer because it is consistent with the ethical concepts of the country in which the subsidiary is doing business. 
Accept the payment because it has the effect of doing the greatest good for the greatest number; the internal auditor is better off, the subsidiary is better off, and the organization is better off because there is strong motivation to correct the deficiencies
1
Question Explanation
9
 Rule of Conduct 2.2 states, 'Internal auditors shall not accept anything that may impair or be presumed to impair their professional judgment.' 
Rule of Conduct 2.3 requires internal auditors to 'disclose all material facts known to them that, if not disclosed, may distort the reporting of activities under review.' 
The profession's standards, not the customs of individual countries or regions, should guide the internal auditor's conduct.
The action is explicitly prohibited by the Code of Ethics
781
An internal auditor engages in the preparation of income tax forms during the tax season. For
which of the following activities will the internal auditor most likely be in violation of The IIA
Code of Ethics?

Writing a tax guide intended for publication and sale to the general public
Preparing the personal tax return, for a fee, for one of the organization's division managers. 
Teaching an evening tax seminar, for a fee, at a local university. 
Preparing tax returns for elderly citizens, regardless of their associations, as a public service. 
2
Question Explanation
9
It is an activity separate from the interests and activities of the organization. No impairment of professional judgment exercised during the internal auditor's duties is likely to result from such an activity.
 Rule of Conduct 2.2 states, 'Internal auditors shall not accept anything that may impair or be presumed to impair their professional judgment.'  Preparing a personal tax return for a division manager for a fee falls under this prohibition
It is an activity separate from the interests and activities of the organization. No impairment of professional judgment exercised during the internal auditor's duties is likely to result from such an activity. 
 It is an activity separate from the interests and activities of the organization. No impairment of professional judgment exercised during the internal auditor's duties is likely to result from such an activity
782
An internal auditing team has made observations and recommendations that should
significantly improve a division&quot;s operating efficiency. Out of appreciation of this work, and
because it is the holiday season, the division manager presents the in-charge internal auditor
with a gift of moderate value. Which of the following best describes the action prescribed by
The IIA Code of Ethics?

Not accept it prior to submission of the final engagement communication
Not accept it if the gift is presumed to impair the internal auditor's judgment
Not accept it, regardless of other circumstances, because its value is significant. 
Accept it, regardless of other circumstances, because its value is insignificant
2
Question Explanation
9
The timing of the gift is irrelevant
 Rule of Conduct 2.2 states, 'Internal auditors shall not accept anything that may impair or be presumed to impair their professional judgment.' 
According to Rule of Conduct 2.2, the decision whether to accept a gift should be based on the potential impairment of the auditor's judgment
The gift's acceptance should be based on whether the internal auditor's professional judgment will be impaired or be presumed to be impaired. 
783
An organization has recently placed a former operating manager in the position of chief audit
executive (CAE). The new CAE is not a member of The IIA and is not a CIA. Henceforth, the
internal audit activity will be run strictly by the CAE&quot;s standards, not The IIA&quot;s. All four staff
internal auditors are members of The IIA, but they are not CIAs. According to The IIA Code of
Ethics, what is the best course of action for the staff internal auditors?

The Code does not apply because they are not CIAs. 
They should comply with the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing
They must respect the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization and ignore the Standards
They must resign their jobs to avoid improper activities. 
2
Question Explanation
9
The IIA Code of Ethics may be enforced against IIA members and recipients of, or candidates for, IIA professional certifications. 
Rule of Conduct 4.2 of The IIA Code of Ethics states, 'Internal auditors shall perform internal auditing services in accordance with the /nternational Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing.'  Because the internal auditors are members of The Institute, The IIA Code of Ethics is enforceable against them even though they are not CIAs. 
Internal auditors should respect and contribute to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization, but an IIA member, a holder of an IIA professional certification, or a candidate for certification may be liable for disciplinary action for failure to adhere to the Standards
The IIA Code of Ethics says nothing about resignation to avoid improper activities. 
784
A new staff internal auditor was told to perform an engagement in an area with which the
internal auditor was not familiar. Because of time constraints, no supervision was provided.
The assignment represented a good learning experience, but the area was clearly beyond the
internal auditor&quot; s competence. Nonetheless, the internal auditor prepared comprehensive
working papers and communicated the results to management. In this situation,

 The internal audit activity violated the Standards by hiring an internal auditor without proficiency in the area
The internal audit activity violated the Standards by not providing adequate supervision
The chief audit executive has not violated The IIA Code of Ethics because it does not address supervision
The Standards and The IIA Code of Ethics were followed by the internal audit activity
2
Question Explanation
9
All internal auditors need not be proficient in all areas. The internal audit activity should have an appropriate mix of skills
Although The IIA Code of Ethics does not address supervision directly, it does require that the Standards be followed (Rule of Conduct 4.2). The Standards require engagements to be performed with proficiency and due professional care (Standard 1200). They also should be properly supervised to ensure that objectives are achieved, quality is assured, and staff is developed (Standard 2340). 
The Code requires compliance with the Standards, and the Standards require proper supervision. 
The Standards and the Code were not followed. 
785
Which situation most likely violates The IIA Code of Ethics and the Standards?

The chief audit executive (CAE) disagrees with the engagement client about the observations and recommendations in a sensitive area. The CAE discusses the detail of the observations and the proposed recommendations with a fellow CAE from another organization
An organization's charter for the internal audit activity requires the chief audit executive (CAE) to present the yearly engagement work schedule to the board for its approval and suggestions. 
The engagement manager has removed the most significant observations and recommendations from the final engagement communication. The in''charge internal auditor opposed the removal, explaining that (s)he knows the reported conditions exist. The in''charge internal auditor agrees that, technically, information is not sufficient to support the observations, but management cannot explain the conditions, and the observations are the only reasonable conclusions. 
Because the internal audit activity lacks skill and knowledge in a specialty area, the chief audit executive (CAE) has hired an expert. The engagement manager has been asked to review the expert' s approach to the assignment. Although knowledgeable about the area under review, the manager is hesitant to accept the assignment because of lack of expertise. 
1
Question Explanation
9
 According to Rule of Conduct 3.1 of The IIA Code of Ethics, 'Internal auditors shall be prudent in the use and protection of information acquired in the course of their duties.' According to Rule of Conduct 3.2, 'Internal auditors shall not use information for any personal gain or in any manner that would be contrary to the law or detrimental to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization.'  Consequently, discussion of sensitive matters with an unauthorized party is the situation most likely to be considered a Code violation. The information conveyed might be used to the detriment of the organization. 
Approval of the engagement work schedule by the board and senior management is required (Standard 2020). 
Information must be sufficient to achieve engagement objectives (Standard 2300). 
The Standards allow use of experts when needed.
786
Which of the following situations is a violation of The IIA Code of Ethics?

An internal auditor was ordered to testify in a court case in which a merger partner claimed to have been defrauded by the internal auditor's organization. The internal auditor divulged confidential information to the court
An internal auditor for a manufacturer of office products recently completed an engagement to evaluate the marketing function. Based on this experience, the internal auditor spent several hours one Saturday working as a paid consultant to a hospital in the local area that intended to conduct an engagement to evaluate its marketing function.
An internal auditor gave a speech at a local IIA chapter meeting outlining the contents of a program the internal auditor had developed for engagements relating to electronic data interchange (EDD connections. Several internal auditors from major competitors were in the audience
During an engagement, an internal auditor learned that the organization was about to introduce a new product that would revolutionize the industry. Because of the probable success of the new product, the product manager suggested that the internal auditor buy an additional interest in the organization, which the internal auditor did. 
4
Question Explanation
9
According to Rule of Conduct 1.2, 'Internal auditors shall observe the law and make disclosures expected by the law and the profession.'  Failure to comply with a court order is illegal. 
 The hospital is not a competitor or supplier of the internal auditor's employer. Hence, no conflict of interest is involved
Giving a speech is not a violation of The IIA Code of Ethics. In fact, The IIA's motto is 'progress through sharing.' 
 According to Rule of Conduct 3.2, 'Internal auditors shall not use information for any personal gain or in any manner that would be contrary to the law or detrimental to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization' 
787
Which of the following actions taken by a chief audit executive (CAE) could be considered
professionally ethical under The IIA Code of Ethics?

The CAE decides to delay an engagement at a branch so that his nephew, the branch manager, will have time to 'clean things up.' 
To save organizational resources, the CAE cancels all staff training for the next 2 years on the basis that all staff are too new to benefit from training. 
To save organizational resources, the CAE limits procedures at foreign branches to confirmations from branch managers that no major personnel changes have occurred. 
The CAE refuses to provide information about organizational operations to his father, who is a part owner
4
Question Explanation
9
 According to Rule of Conduct 1.1, 'Internal auditors shall perform their work with honesty, diligence, and responsibility.' 
According to Rule of Conduct 4.3, 'Internal auditors shall continually improve their proficiency and the effectiveness and quality of their services.' 
 According to Rule of Conduct 4.2, 'Internal auditors shall perform internal auditing services in accordance with the /nternational Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing.'  The Standards require supporting information to be sufficient, reliable, relevant, and useful.
According to Rule of Conduct 3.1 of The IIA Code of Ethics, 'Internal auditors shall be prudent in the use and protection of information acquired in the course of their duties.'  According to Rule of Conduct 3.2, 'Internal auditors shall not use information for any personal gain or in any manner that would be contrary to the law or detrimental to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization'  Thus, such use of information by the CAE might be illegal under insider trading mies. 
788
During an examination of grants awarded by a nonprofit organization, an internal auditor
discovered a number of grants made without the approval of the grant authorization committee
(which includes outside representatives), as required by the organization&quot; s charter. All the
grants, however, were approved and documented by the president. The chair of the grant
authorization committee, who is also a member of the board of directors, proposes that the
committee meet and retroactively approve all the grants before the engagement communication
is issued. If the committee meets and approves the grants before such issuance, the internal
auditor should

Not report the grants in question because they were approved before the issuance of the engagement communication
Discuss the matter with the chair of the grant committee to determine the rationale for not approving the grants earlier. If the grants are routine, discussion of the grant committee's inaction should be omitted from the engagement communication
Include the items in the communication as an override of the organization's controls. Details about each grant should be reported, and the internal auditor should investigate further for fraud. 
Report the override of control to the board
4
Question Explanation
9
The control override should be reported. 
The routine nature of the grants is irrelevant to the issue of the violation of the charter. 
Details about each grant need not be included unless the internal auditor believes that fraud may have occurred. Moreover, the appropriate organizational authorities should be informed if wrongdoing is suspected. 
Rule of Conduct 2.3 states, 'Internal auditors shall disclose all material facts known to them that, if not disclosed, may distort the reporting of activities under review.' The management override of an important control over approval of grants created a material risk exposure. Thus, the internal auditor is ethically obligated to report the matter to senior officials charged with performing the governance function.
789
A chief audit executive (CAE) learned that a staff internal auditor provided confidential
information to a relative. Both the CAE and staff internal auditor are CIAs. Although the
internal auditor did not benefit from the transaction, the relative used the information to make a
significant profit. The most appropriate way for the CAE to deal with this problem is to

Verbally reprimand the internal auditor
The internal auditor has violated Rule of Conduct 3.2 regarding use of information. The IIA should be notified
Take no action because the internal auditor did not benefit from the transaction
Inform The Institute's Board of Directors and take the personnel action required by organizational policy. 
4
Question Explanation
9
The internal auditor has violated Rule of Conduct 3.2 regarding use of information. The IIA should be notified
 Summary discharge may not be in accordance with company personnel policies. 
The auditor improperly used information and violated The IIA Code of Ethics. Some action is warranted.
The staff internal auditor has violated Rule of Conduct 3.2 regarding use of information. A violation of The IIA Code of Ethics is the basis for a complaint to the International Ethics Committee, which is responsible for receiving, interpreting, and investigating all complaints against members or CIAs on behalf of the Board of Directors of The IIA, and making recommendations to the Board on actions to be taken (Administrative Directive 5). In addition, organizational policy must be followed. 
790
An internal auditor, nearly finished with an engagement, discovers that the director of
marketing has a gambling habit. The gambling issue is not directly related to the existing
engagement, and the internal auditor is under pressure to complete it quickly. The internal
auditor notes the problem and passes the information on to the chief audit executive but does
no further follow-up. The internal auditor&quot;s actions

Are in violation of The IIA Code of Ethics for withholding meaningful information
Are in violation of the Standards because the internal auditor did not properly follow up on a red flag that might indicate the existence of fraud. 
Are not in violation of either The IIA Code of Ethics or the Standards
Are in violation of The IIA Code of Ethics for withholding meaningful information and are in violation of the Standards because the internal auditor did not properly follow up on a red flag that might indicate the existence of fraud. 
3
Question Explanation
9
The internal auditor did not withhold information but properly followed up upon learning of the information
The internal auditor did not withhold information but properly followed up upon learning of the information
There is no violation of either The IIA Code of Ethics or the Standards. The internal auditor did not withhold information but properly followed up upon learning of the information. 
The internal auditor did not withhold information but properly followed up upon learning of the information
791
An engagement at a foreign subsidiary disclosed payments to local government officials in
return for orders. What action does The IIA Code of Ethics suggest for an internal auditor in
such a case?

Refrain from any action that might be detrimental to the organization
Report the incident to appropriate regulatory authorities. 
Inform appropriate organizational officials
Report the practice to the board of The Institute of Internal Auditors
3
Question Explanation
9
Informing organizational officials is not detrimental to the organization. 
The Code does not require that the incident be reported to regulatory authorities. 
Such payments may be illegal. Rule of Conduct 2.3 states, 'Internal auditors shall disclose all material facts known to them that, if not disclosed, may distort the reporting of activities under review.' 
The Code does not require reporting to The IIA
792
During an engagement, an employee with whom you have developed a good working
relationship informs you that she has some information about senior management that is
damaging to the organization and may concern illegal activities. The employee does not want
her name associated with the release of the information. Which of the following actions is
considered to be inconsistent with The IIA Code of Ethics and the Standards?

Assure the employee that you can maintain her anonymity and listen to the information. 
Suggest that the employee consider talking to legal counsel
Inform the employee that you will attempt to keep the source of the information confidential and will look into the matter further
Inform the employee of other methods of communicating this type of information
1
Question Explanation
9
An internal auditor cannot guarantee anonymity. Information communicated to an internal auditor is not subject to a testimonial privilege. Moreover, Rule of Conduct 2.3 states, 'Internal auditors shall disclose all material facts known to them that, if not disclosed, may distort the reporting of activities under review.'  The identity of the informant may be such a material fact
Suggesting that the person seek expert legal advice from a qualified individual is appropriate. 
 Promising merely to attempt to keep the source of the information confidential is allowable. This promise is not a guarantee of confidentiality.
The employee could be directed to other methods of communicating the information in order to maintain her anonymity
793
The chief audit executive is aware of a material inventory shortage caused by internal control
deficiencies at one manufacturing plant. The shortage and related causes are of sufficient
magnitude to affect the external auditor&quot;s report. Based on The IIA Code of Ethics, what is the
CAE&quot;s most appropriate course of action?

Say nothing; guard against interfering with the independence of the external auditors
Discuss the issue with management and take appropriate action to ensure that the external auditors are informed
Inform the external auditors of the possibility of a shortage but allow them to make an independent assessment of the amount. 
Communicate the shortages to the board and allow them to communicate it to the external auditor
2
Question Explanation
9
The shortage is a material fact that could distort a report of activities under review if not revealed
The IIA's Code of Ethics calls for compliance with the Standards (Rule of Conduct 4.2). The CAE should share information and coordinate activities with other internal and external providers of relevant assurance and consulting services (Standard 2050). In addition, all material facts known by the internal auditors should be disclosed (Rule of Conduct 2.3). Because the shortage affects the external auditor' s work in which the internal auditors are participating, the situation must be divulged
The condition is known and the external auditors should be told more than that a possibility of a shortage exists. 
Information should be shared and activities coordinated with the external auditor. 
794
Which of the following most likely constitutes a violation of The IIA Code of Ethics?

Auditor A has accepted an assignment to perform an engagement at the electronics manufacturing division. Auditor A has recently joined the internal audit activity. But Auditor A was senior auditor for the external audit of that division and has audited many electronics organizations during the past 2 years. 
Auditor B has been assigned to perform an engagement at the warehousing function 6 months from now. Auditor B has no expertise in that area but accepted the assignment anyway. Auditor B has signed up for continuing professional education courses in warehousing that will be completed before the assignment begins. 
Auditor C is content as an internal auditor and has come to look at it as a regular 9-'to-5 job. Auditor C has not engaged in continuing professional education or other activities to improve effectiveness during the last 3 years. However, Auditor C feels performance of quality work is the same as before. 
Auditor D discovered an internal financial fraud during the year. The books were adjusted to properly reflect the loss associated with the fraud. Auditor D discussed the fraud with the external auditor when the external auditor reviewed working papers detailing the incident. 
3
Question Explanation
9
No professional conflict of interest exists per se, especially given that the internal auditor was previously in public accounting. However, the internal auditor should be aware of potential conflicts.
 According to Rule of Conduct 4.1, 'Internal auditors shall engage only in those services for which they have the necessary knowledge, skills, and experience.'  Thus, Auditor B may perform this service if the necessary knowledge, etc., is obtained. 
Rule of Conduct 4.3 states, 'Internal auditors shall continually improve their proficiency and the effectiveness and quality of their services.' 
The information was disclosed as part of the normal process of cooperation between the internal and external auditor. Because the books were adjusted, the external auditor was expected to inquire as to the nature of the adjustment. 
795
Through an engagement performed at the credit department, the chief audit executive (CAE)
became aware of a material misstatement of the year-end accounts receivable balance. The
external auditors have completed their engagement without detecting the misstatement. What
should the CAE do in this situation?

Inform the external auditors of the misstatement. 
Report the misstatement to management when the external auditors present a report
Exclude the misstatement from the final engagement communication because the external auditors are responsible for expressing an opinion on the financial statements. 
Perform additional engagement procedures on accounts receivable balances to benefit the external auditors
1
Question Explanation
9
Rule of Conduct 2.3 states, 'Internal auditors shall disclose all material facts known to them that, if not disclosed, may distort the reporting of activities under review.' 
The CAE should share information and coordinate activities with the external auditors (Standard 2050).
Although the internal audit activity's main focus may be on risk management, control, and governance processes, a material misstatement must be communicated. 
When performing an audit, the external auditors should determine what work should be performed by the internal auditor
796
An internal auditor has uncovered facts that could be interpreted as indicating unlawful activity
on the part of an engagement client. The internal auditor decides not to inform senior
management and the board of these facts because of lack of proof. The internal auditor,
however, decides that, if questions are raised regarding the omitted facts, they will be answered
fully and truthfully. In taking this action, the internal auditor

Has not violated The IIA Code of Ethics or the Standards because confidentiality takes precedence over all other standards
Has not violated The IIA Code of Ethics or the Standards because the internal auditor is committed to answering all questions fully and truthfully.
Has violated The IIA Code of Ethics because unlawful acts should have been reported to the appropriate regulatory agency to avoid potential 'aiding and abetting' by the internal auditor
Has violated the Standards because the internal auditor should inform the appropriate authorities in the organization if fraud may be indicated
4
Question Explanation
9
Reporting a possible irregularity to the appropriate organizational authorities is not a breach of the duty of confidentiality owed to the organization.
The internal auditor has an affirmative duty to report the results of his or her work. 
. The possibility of unlawful activities should be reported to the appropriate personnel within the organization
The internal auditor should inform the appropriate authorities in the organization if the indicators of the commission of a fraud are sufficient to recommend an investigation. Hence, the internal auditor has a duty to act even though the available facts do not prove that an irregularity has occurred. Moreover, Rule of Conduct 2.3 states, 'Internal auditors shall disclose all material facts known to them that, if not disclosed, may distort the reporting of activities under review.' 
797
Today&quot;s internal auditor will often encounter a wide range of potential ethical dilemmas, not all
of which are explicitly addressed by The IIA&quot; s Code of Ethics. If the internal auditor encounters
such a dilemma, the internal auditor should always

Seek counsel from an independent attorney to determine the personal consequences of potential actions
Apply and uphold the principles embodied in The IIA Code of Ethics. 
Seek the counsel of the board before deciding on an action
Act consistently with the code of ethics adopted by the organization even if such action is not consistent with The IIA's Code of Ethics. 
2
Question Explanation
9
 Seeking the advice of legal counsel on all ethical decisions is impracticable. 
 The Code includes Principles (integrity, objectivity, confidentiality, and competency) relevant to the profession and practice of internal auditing and Rules of Conduct that describe behavioral norms for internal auditors and that interpret the Principles. Internal auditors are expected to apply and uphold the Principles. Furthermore, that a particular conduct is not mentioned in the Rules does not prevent it from being unacceptable or discreditable. 
Seeking the advice of the board on all ethical decisions is impracticable. Furthermore, the advice might not be consistent with the profession's standards. 
If the organization's standards are not consistent with, or as high as, the profession's standards, the internal auditor is held to the standards of the profession. 
798
In complying with The IIA Code of Ethics, an internal auditor should

Use individual judgment in the application of the principles set forth in the Code
Respect and contribute to the objectives of the organization even if it is engaged in illegal activities. 
Go beyond the limitation of personal technical skills to advance the interest of the organization.
Primarily apply the competency principle in establishing trust. 
1
Question Explanation
9
The IIA Code of Ethics includes principles that internal auditors are expected to apply and uphold. They are interpreted by the Rules of Conduct, behavior norms expected of internal auditors. That a particular conduct is not mentioned in the Rules of Conduct does not prevent it from being unacceptable or discreditable. Consequently, a reasonable inference is that individual judgment is necessary in the application of the principles and the Rules of Conduct. Ethics provide basic principles in the practice of internal auditing. Members or CIAs should realize that their individual judgment is required in the application of these principles. 
An internal auditor 'shall not knowingly be a party to any illegal activity.'  Furthermore, an internal auditor is bound to respect and contribute only to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization. 
 Internal auditors 'shall engage only in those services for which they have the necessary knowledge, skills, and experience.' 
Applying and upholding the integrity principle is the means by which an internal auditor establishes trust as a basis for reliance on his/her judgment. 
799
An internal auditor has been assigned to an engagement to evaluate a possible acquisition.
Coincidentally, a significant portion of this internal auditor&quot; s personal investment portfolio is
composed of the target organization&quot;s stock. What is the internal auditor&quot;s preferable course of
action in this situation based on The IIA Code of Ethics?

Acquaint the chief audit executive with the situation and ask to be assigned to another audit. 
Acquaint the chief audit executive with the situation and offer assurance that it will have no impact on objectivity
Proceed with the audit because the personal investments are not an issue
The internal auditor might be deemed to have a personal stake in the results of the engagement.
1
Question Explanation
9
 Under Rule of Conduct 2.1, 'Internal auditors shall not participate in any activity or relationship that may impair or be presumed to impair their unbiased assessment. This participation includes those activities or relationships that may be in conflict with the interests of the organization.' In these circumstances, the internal auditor lacks the appearance of objectivity because the outcome of the engagement could directly affect the acquisition decision and the price of the stock. The use of the information also would be a violation of the Code and possibly of insider trading mies as well. Under Rule of Conduct 3.2, 'Internal auditors shall not use information for any personal gain or in any manner that would be contrary to the law or detrimental to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization.' 
The appearance as well as the reality of loss of independence must be considered. 
The internal auditor might be deemed to have a personal stake in the results of the engagement.
The investment is significant to the internal auditor
800
Under The IIA Code of Ethics, an entity that provides internal auditing services is specifically
required to

Maintain certain predetermined staffing requirements for engagements
Comply with the /nternational Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing
Comply with organizational policy
Participate in a formal continuing education program
2
Question Explanation
9
Staffing requirements must be determined based on the circumstances of each engagement.
The IIA Code of Ethics applies not only to individuals but also to entities that provide internal auditing services. Under Rule of Conduct 4.2, 'Internal auditors shall perform internal auditing services in accordance with the /nternational Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing.' 
The Code requires internal auditors to respect and contribute to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization and not engage in acts discreditable to the organization. However, the Code does not specifically mention compliance with organizational policy.
The Code requires compliance with the Standards, and the Standards require internal auditors to enhance their knowledge, skills, and other competencies through continuing professional development, but neither the Code nor the Standards require formal continuing education
801
Which of the following situations is a violation of The IIA Code of Ethics?

An internal auditor, with the knowledge and consent of management, accepted a token gift from a customer of the organization that was not presumed to impair and did not impair judgment. 
Knowing that management was aware of the situation, an internal auditor purposely left a description of an unlawful practice out of the final engagement communication
An internal auditor shared techniques with internal auditors from another organization
Based upon knowledge of the probable success of the employer's business, an internal auditor invested in a mutual fund that specialized in the same industry. 
2
Question Explanation
9
Acceptance of anything from a customer is prohibited but only if it would impair or be presumed to impair professional judgment
Rule of Conduct 2.3 states, 'Internal auditors shall disclose all material facts known to them that, if not disclosed, may distort the reporting of activities under review.' Moreover, under Rule of Conduct 1.3, 'Internal auditors shall not knowingly be a party to any illegal activity, or engage in acts that are discreditable to the profession of internal auditing or to the organization.' 
Under Rule of Conduct 4.3, 'Internal auditors shall continually improve their proficiency and the effectiveness and quality of their services.' 
 Although an internal auditor is prohibited from using confidential information for personal gain, and an investment in the organization's stock would be questionable, an investment in a mutual fund is acceptable. 
802
During the course of an engagement, an internal auditor discovered that a research and
development employee has been patenting new developments that are unrelated to the basic
business of the organization. The organization does not have a specific policy addressing
patents on developments that are not related to its basic business, but it has a general policy that
all important new discoveries by employees are the property of the organization. The employee
is considered one of the most prestigious in the field. The employee&quot;s actions have been
condoned by local management as an extra incentive to keep the employee at the lab. A
decision not to report the employee&quot;s action is

 A violation of The IIA Code of Ethics. 
A violation of the reporting requirements in the Standards. 
Justified because divisional management is aware of the practice, and it is not in violation of organizational policies.
Both a violation of The IIA Code of Ethics AND a violation of the reporting requirements in           the Standards. 
4
Question Explanation
9
Failing to report the violation of organizational policy is contrary to The IIA Code of Ethics. 
Failing to report the violation of organizational policy is contrary to the Standards. 
 The employee's patenting of new developments violates the general policy that all important new discoveries are the property of the organization. Furthermore, if the practice is an alternative way to provide benefits to an employee, it may violate employee compensation mies. It may also need to be reported to various taxing authorities. 
Under the Standards, internal auditors should communicate engagement results. Rule of Conduct 4.2 states, 'Internal auditors shall perform internal auditing services in accordance with the /nternational Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing.' Rule of Conduct 2.3 states, 'Internal auditors shall disclose all material facts known to them that, if not disclosed, may distort the reporting of activities under review.' Hence, the failure to report violates The IIA Code of Ethics and the Standards. 
803
Which of the following actions could be construed as a violation of The IIA Code of Ethics?

 Failing to report to management information that would be material to management' s judgment
Expressing an opinion on internal financial statements
Turning a case over to the security department when an internal auditor suspects fraud but has no proof. 
Including an internal control problem in a final engagement communication, when it has been corrected prior to completion of the engagement. 
1
Question Explanation
9
Rule of Conduct 2.3 states, 'Internal auditors shall disclose all material facts known to them that, if not disclosed, may distort the reporting of activities under review.' 
Expressing an opinion on internal financial statements is acceptable for internal use only
Turning a case over to the security department is acceptable as long as the internal auditor is careful not to state any final conclusions that are not supported by factual information
 Such reporting is routine
804
During an engagement, an internal auditor learned that certain individuals in the organization
were involved in industrial espionage for the benefit of the organization. According to The IIA
Code of Ethics, what is the internal auditor&quot;s proper course of action?

Report the facts to the appropriate individuals within the organization
No action is required because this condition is not detrimental to the organization
Note the condition in the working papers but refrain from reporting it because it benefits the organization
Report the condition to the appropriate governmental regulatory agency
1
Question Explanation
9
Rule of Conduct 2.3 states, 'Internal auditors shall disclose all material facts known to them that, if not disclosed, may distort the reporting of activities under review.' Moreover, under Rule of Conduct 1.3, 'Internal auditors shall not knowingly be a party to any illegal activity, or engage in acts that are discreditable to the profession of internal auditing or to the organization.'
 Internal auditors must report material facts that, if not disclosed, could distort the reporting of activities. They also may not knowingly be a party to an illegal activity. 
Internal auditors may not knowingly be a party to an illegal activity. 
Internal auditors ordinarily are not required to disclose voluntarily any illegal or improper acts to outside individuals or organizations. They should try to work within their organizations. However, under Rule of Conduct  1.2, they should make any disclosures expected by the law or by the profession
805
Which of the following activities of an internal auditor is most likely to be acceptable under
The IIA Code of Ethics?

Late arrivals and early departures from work because this practice is common in the organization
Frequent luncheons and other socializing with major suppliers of the organization without the consent of senior management
Conducting an unrelated business outside of office hours
Acceptance of a material gift from a supplier. 
3
Question Explanation
9
Late arrivals and early departures from work because this practice is common in the organization
According to Rule of Conduct 2.1, 'Internal auditors shall not participate in any activity or relationship that may impair or be presumed to impair their unbiased assessment. This participation includes those activities or relationships that may be in conflict with the interests of the organization' 
Nothing in The IIA Code of Ethics prohibits operating an unrelated business outside of regular office hours. The activity does not, in itself, constitute a conflict of interest, a use of information for personal gain, or an impairment of the internal auditor's unbiased assessment. 
According to Rule of Conduct 2.2, 'Internal auditors shall not accept anything that may impair or be presumed to impair their professional judgment.' 
806
Which of the following most likely constitutes a violation of The IIA Code of Ethics by an
internal auditor?

Discussing at a trade convention the organization's controls over its computer networks. 
Purchasing stock in a target entity after overhearing an executive's discussion of a possible acquisition
Deleting sensitive information from a final engagement communication at the request of senior management. 
Investigating executive expense reports based completely on rumors of padding
2
Question Explanation
9
Disclosure of information technology controls is not detrimental to the objectives of the organization. They are not likely to be trade secrets. 
Insider trading may be prohibited by securities law. According to Rule of Conduct 3.1, 'Internal auditors shall be prudent in the use and protection of information acquired in the course of their duties.'  Furthermore, according to Rule of Conduct 3.2, 'Internal auditors shall not use information for any personal gain or in any manner that would be contrary to the law or detrimental to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization.' 
If senior management permits the omission, the internal auditor is not guilty of failing to disclose material facts
An investigation of expense accounts is within the internal auditor's normal responsibilities, but further investigation of fraud should ordinarily be made by investigative specialists. 
807
Which of the following items is a violation by an internal auditor of The IIA Code of Ethics?

Certain facts recorded in the internal auditor's working papers that helped to support the basic allegations made by the internal auditor regarding a case of fraud were not included in the final engagement communication. 
Information in the internal auditor's working papers that proved a criminal act was included in the internal auditor's draft communication. The comments were later removed by internal audit management
To keep the engagement effort within the budgeted time, the internal auditor was directed to and did curtail testing in an area that looked suspicious and later was proved to contain massive irregularities
A control system that had been recommended by the internal audit staff during the previous engagement was found to be defective. The internal auditor reported the defective function as an engagement client failure. 
4
Question Explanation
9
Immaterial facts need not be included. 
The ethical transgression, if any, was not made by the internal auditor but by internal audit management
The ethical transgression, if any, was not made by the internal auditor but by internal audit management. 
Reporting the defective function as an engagement client failure is a violation of the internal auditor' s ethical obligation to disclose all material facts known to him/her that, if not disclosed, may distort the reporting of activities under review (Rule of Conduct 2.3). 
808
Which of the following actions by an internal auditor would violate The IIA Code of Ethics?

Attendance at an educational program offered by an engagement client to all employees
Acceptance of airline tickets from an engagement client. 
Disclosure, in an engagement communication, of all material facts relevant to the area reviewed. 
Disposal of a small ownership interest in the organization prior to learning of a business downturn. 
2
Question Explanation
9
 Continuing education is consistent with the duty to continually improve proficiency and the effectiveness and quality of services (Rule of Conduct 4.3).
'Internal auditors shall not accept anything that may impair or be presumed to impair their professional judgment' (Rule of Conduct 2.2). 
 Rule of Conduct 2.3 requires full disclosure of material facts when reporting on activities. 
A stock transaction not based on insider information is not an impropriety. 
809
An internal auditor may receive which of the following without violating The IIA Code of
Ethics?

A pen received from the sales manager of a subsidiary with the imprinted name of the organization's product and a phone number. 
A dinner and baseball tickets from the manager of a department being reviewed. The tickets are usually made available to employees of that department
A dinner and baseball tickets from the manager of a department that has never been reviewed and for which there are no plans for a future engagement. The tickets are usually made available to employees of that department. 
A bottle of whiskey from the organization's treasurer
1
Question Explanation
9
Rule of Conduct 2.2 states, 'Internal auditors shall not accept anything that may impair or be presumed to impair their professional judgment.' A small promotional item, such as a pen of minimal value, is unlikely to affect an auditor's judgment. 
A gift from an employee whose department may be reviewed most likely violates Rule of Conduct 2.2. 
A gift from an employee whose department may be reviewed most likely violates Rule of Conduct 2.2. 
 A gift from an employee whose department may be reviewed most likely violates Rule of Conduct 2.2. 
810
In their reporting, internal auditors are required by The IIA Code of Ethics to

Present sufficient factual information without revealing confidential matters that could be detrimental to the organization
Disclose all material information obtained by the auditor as of the date of the final engagement communication
Obtain factual information within the established time and budget parameters. 
Disclose material facts known to the internal auditor that could distort the final engagement communication if not revealed. 
4
Question Explanation
9
This requirement is not in the Code. 
This requirement is not in the Code. 
This requirement is not in the Code. 
Rule of Conduct 2.3 states, 'Internal auditors shall disclose all material facts known to them that, if not disclosed, may distort the reporting of activities under review.' 
811
Which of the following actions by an internal auditor is most likely a violation of The IIA Code
of Ethics?

Accepting payment for teaching auditing at a local university. 
Having a material ownership interest in a competitor
Accepting a moderate gift from a customer of his/her organization
Rule of Conduct 2.2 of The IIA Code of Ethics states, 'Internal auditors shall not accept anything that may impair or be presumed to impair their professional judgment.' 
3
Question Explanation
9
Teaching is compatible with internal auditing. 
 Having a material ownership interest in a competitor is more likely to cause a conflict for a director or officer than an internal auditor. An internal auditor would seldom be able during the course of his/her employment to take action that would enhance the value of the ownership interest. 
Rule of Conduct 2.2 of The IIA Code of Ethics states, 'Internal auditors shall not accept anything that may impair or be presumed to impair their professional judgment.' 
The IIA Code of Ethics does not specifically mention use of the CIA designation. Acts discreditable to the profession or the organization are prohibited, but use of the CIA designation outside the employment context is not per se discreditable
812
Which of the following is permissible under The IIA Code of Ethics?

Disclosing confidential, engagement-related information that is potentially damaging to the organization in a court of law in response to a subpoena. 
Using engagement-related information in a decision to buy an ownership interest in the employer
Accepting an unexpected gift from an employee who was praised in a recent engagement communication. 
Not reporting significant observations about illegal activity to the audit committee because management has indicated it will handle the issue. 
1
Question Explanation
9
Rule of Conduct I .2 states, 'Internal auditors shall observe the law and make disclosures expected by the law and the profession' Thus, complying with a valid subpoena does not violate The IIA Code of Ethics. 
Rule of Conduct 3.2 states, 'Internal auditors shall not use information for any personal gain or in any manner that would be contrary to the law or detrimental to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization' 
 Rule of Conduct 2.2 states, 'Internal auditors shall not accept anything that may impair or be presumed to impair their professional judgment.' 
Rule of Conduct 1.3 states, 'Internal auditors shall not knowingly be a party to any illegal activity, or engage in acts that are discreditable to the profession of internal auditing or to the organization.' Moreover, Rule of Conduct 2.3 states, 'Internal auditors shall disclose all material facts known to them that, if not disclosed, may distort the reporting of activities under review.' 
813
An internal auditor, recently terminated by an organization due to downsizing, has found a job
with another organization in the same industry. Which of the following disclosures made by the
internal auditor to the new organization would constitute a violation of The IIA&quot;s Code of
Ethics?

The internal auditor used the risk assessment approach that was used by the internal auditor's former employer in determining priorities in the new job. 
The new internal audit activity does not use PPS sampling, and the internal auditor believes PPS sampling has advantages for many of the engagements conducted by the new employer. The internal auditor conducts training sessions and develops forms to implement sampling in the same manner as the previous employer. 
While at the previous firm, the internal auditor conducted a great deal of research to identify 'best practices' for the management of the treasury function. Because most of the research was done at home and during non-office hours, the internal auditor retained much of the research and plans to use it in conducting a review of the treasury function at the new employer. 
None of the answers represent a violation of the Code. 
4
Question Explanation
9
Disclosing the former employer's risk assessment approach does not violate the Code. 
Disclosing sampling methods does not violate the Code.
Disclosing information about best practices of other entities does not violate the Code. 
The former employer's risk assessment approach may be viewed as general information about 'best practices.' Hence, applying this approach on behalf of a new employer is acceptable. With regard to the former employer's sampling methods, the internal auditor is applying knowledge of a commonly used engagement procedure. It is not confidential information. Moreover, gathering information about best practices of other organizations is part of the continuing education of the internal auditor. Thus, the listed responses are not violations of the Code
814
Which of the following is permissible under The IIA Code of Ethics?

In response to a subpoena, an auditor appeared in a court of law and disclosed confidential, audit-related information that could potentially damage the auditor's organization.
An auditor used audit-related information in a decision to buy stock issued by the employer corporation
After praising an employee in a recent audit engagement communication, an auditor accepted a gift from the employee
An auditor did not report significant observations about illegal activity to the board because management indicated that it would resolve the issue. 
1
Question Explanation
9
According to Rule of Conduct 1.2, 'Internal auditors shall observe the law and make disclosures expected by the law and the profession'  Thus, auditors must comply with subpoenas
Rule of Conduct 3.2 prohibits auditors from using audit information for personal gain. 
Rule of Conduct 2.2 prohibits an auditor from accepting anything that might be presumed to impair the auditor's professional judgment
 Rule of Conduct 1.3 prohibits auditors from knowingly being a party to any illegal or improper activity. Significant observations of illegal activity should be reported to the audit committee. 
815
An internal auditor who encounters an ethical dilemma not explicitly addressed by The IIA
Code of Ethics should always

Seek counsel from an independent attorney to determine the personal consequences of potential actions.
Take action consistent with the principles embodied in The IIA Code of Ethics
Seek the counsel of the audit committee before deciding on an action
Act consistently with the employing organization's code of ethics even if such action would not be consistent with The IIA Code of Ethics
2
Question Explanation
9
The auditor must act consistently with the spirit of The IIA Code of Ethics. It is not practical to seek the advice of legal counsel for all ethical decisions. Moreover, unethical behavior may not be illegal. 
The IIA Code of Ethics is based on principles relevant to the profession and practice of internal auditing that internal auditors are expected to apply and uphold: integrity, objectivity, confidentiality, and competency. Furthermore, the Code states that particular conduct may be unacceptable or discreditable even if it is not mentioned in the Rules of Conduct. 
 It is not feasible to seek the audit committee's advice for all potential dilemmas. Furthermore, the advice might not be consistent with the profession's standards
If the organization's standards are not consistent with, or as high as, the profession's standards, the internal auditor should abide by the latter
816
The IIA Code of Ethics does not require
 Contribution to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization. 
Rule of Conduct I .4 states, 'Internal auditors shall respect and contribute to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization.' 
Continual improvement in proficiency
A report on each engagement
4
Question Explanation
9
Rule of Conduct I .4 states, 'Internal auditors shall respect and contribute to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization.' 
Rule of Conduct 1.1 imposes an obligation of honesty, diligence, and responsibility. Moreover, objectivity is one of the four Principles stated in the Code.
 Continual improvement in proficiency and in the effectiveness and quality of services is required by Rule of Conduct 4.3
 The IIA Code of Ethics contains 12 Rules of Conduct, none of which requires a report on each engagement. However, the Standards require internal auditors to communicate the engagement results. 
817
The IIA Code of Ethics incorporates by reference which of the following mies?

Duty to disclose all material facts when reporting on activities. 
Performance with proficiency and due professional care. 
Prudent and lawful use of information.
No acceptance of anything that may impair professional judgment. 
2
Question Explanation
9
Rule of Conduct 2.3 states, 'Internal auditors shall disclose all material facts known to them that, if not disclosed, may distort the reporting of activities under review. 
 Rule of Conduct 4.2 states, 'Internal auditors shall perform internal auditing services in accordance with the /nternational Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing.'  Attribute Standard 1200 under the Standards requires engagements to be performed with proficiency and due professional care. 
 Rule of Conduct 3.1 states, 'Internal auditors shall be prudent in the use and protection of information acquired in the course of their duties.'  Rule of Conduct 3.2 states, 'Internal auditors shall not use information for any personal gain or in any manner that would be contrary to the law or detrimental to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization' 
Rule of Conduct 2.2 states, 'Internal auditors shall not accept anything that may impair or be presumed to impair their professional judgment.' 
818
Why does The IIA Code of Ethics in Rule of Conduct 4.2 require that due professional care be
used in obtaining information to support an engagement opinion?

Sufficient, reliable, relevant, and useful information lends credibility to the opinion
To preclude any conflict of interest
To require honesty in performing work.
If internal auditors were permitted to communicate engagement results without obtaining sufficient information, they would be in a position to accept fees or gifts from engagement clients
1
Question Explanation
9
Engagements must be performed with proficiency and due professional care (Standard 1200), and the engagement results must be communicated (Standard 2400). Engagement results include observations, conclusions, opinions, recommendations, and action plans (PA 2410- 1). If internal auditors expressed opinions or otherwise communicated engagement results without substantive investigation and compliance with the Standards, such communications would be meaningless. The Standards are therefore incorporated by reference into The IIA Code of Ethics by Rule of Conduct 4.2. Thus, internal auditors must identify sufficient, reliable, relevant, and useful information to achieve the engagement' s objectives (Standard 2310). 
 A separate ethics rule prohibits conflicts of interest. Rule of Conduct 2.1 states, 'Internal auditors shall not participate in any activity or relationship that may impair or be presumed to impair their unbiased assessment. This participation includes those activities or relationships that may be in conflict with the interests of the organization.' 
Rule of Conduct 1.1 requires honesty, diligence, and responsibility in the performance of work. 
Rule of Conduct 2.2 prohibits accepting anything that may impair or be presumed to impair the professional judgment of an internal auditor
819
An internal auditor is performing services in a division in which the chief financial officer is a
close personal friend, and the internal auditor learns that the friend is to be replaced after a
series of critical labor negotiations. The internal auditor relays this information to the friend.
Has a violation of The IIA Code of Ethics occurred?

 No. The use of the confidential information resulted in no personal gain to the internal auditor
 The Rules of Conduct specifically prohibit using information in a manner that would be detrimental to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization
The Rules of Conduct specifically prohibit using information in a manner that would be detrimental to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization
Yes. The internal auditor was not prudent in the use of information acquired in the course of his/her duties
4
Question Explanation
9
 The Rules of Conduct specifically prohibit using information in a manner that would be detrimental to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization
The Rules of Conduct specifically prohibit using information in a manner that would be detrimental to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization
 The facts do not suggest that a conflict of interest existed. However, such a conflict would be present, for example, if the internal auditor used confidential information to seize a business opportunity that rightfully belonged to the organization
 These facts constitute a violation of The IIA Code of Ethics. Rule of Conduct 3.1 states, 'Internal auditors shall be prudent in the use and protection of information acquired in the course of their duties.'  Rule of Conduct 3.2 states, 'Internal auditors shall not use information for any personal gain or in any manner that would be contrary to the law or detrimental to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization.' In this case, the decision whether to notify the financial officer of his/her replacement was properly the organization's. Accordingly, the internal auditor was bound not to tell his/her friend. 
820
Which situation is most likely a violation of The IIA Code of Ethics?

Reporting apparent violations of antitrust statutes by chief executive officers to government regulators. 
Cooperating with the government's criminal investigation of the organization.
Reporting apparent violations of antitrust statutes by chief executive officers to the audit committee of the board of directors
Immediately reporting a violent crime observed at work to local law enforcement agencies
1
Question Explanation
9
 An internal auditor should not knowingly be a party to any illegal activity (Rule of Conduct I .3), but (s)he must disclose all material facts known to him/her that, if not disclosed, might distort the reporting of activities under review (Rule of Conduct 2.3). An internal auditor also should respect and contribute to the legitimate and ethical objectives of the organization (Rule of Conduct I .4). Thus, when apparent violations of antitrust statutes by chief executive officers come to the internal auditor's attention, (s)he should report to the audit committee of the board of directors rather than directly to the government regulators. However, an internal auditor should observe the law and make any disclosures required by the law or by the profession (Rule of Conduct I.2). 
 Everyone has a legal obligation to cooperate with a criminal investigation. An internal auditor should observe the law and make any disclosures required by the law or by the profession
An internal auditor should report apparent improprieties to the audit committee. 
Everyone has a legal and moral obligation to report violent crimes immediately. 
821
In their communication of results, internal auditors are required by The IIA Code of Ethics to

Obtain factual information within the established time and budget parameters
Reveal material facts that could distort communications if not revealed
Present sufficient factual information without revealing confidential information that could be detrimental to the organization
Disclose all material information obtained as of the date of the final engagement communication.
2
Question Explanation
9
 Obtaining information pertains to performing the engagement, not communicating results. 
 Internal auditors should disclose all material facts known to them that, if not disclosed, may distort the reporting of activities under review (Rule of Conduct 2.3). 
The Code of Ethics does not prohibit communicating confidential information to appropriate parties within the organization, e.g., senior management and the board. 
Disclosures by the internal auditors are not limited to information obtained as of the date of the final engagement communication. 
822
In the course of their work, internal auditors must be alert for fraud and other forms of white
collar crime. The important characteristic that distinguishes fraud from other varieties of white&quot;
collar crime is that

Fraud is characterized by deceit, concealment, or violation of trust. 
Unlike other white-collar crimes, fraud is always perpetrated against an outside party. 
White-collar crime is usually perpetrated for the benefit of an organization, but fraud benefits an individual. 
White-collar crime is usually perpetrated by outsiders to the detriment of an organization, but fraud is perpetrated by insiders to benefit the organization. 
1
Question Explanation
10
Fraud is defined in the Glossary as 'any illegal act characterized by deceit, concealment, or violation of trust. These acts are not dependent upon the threat of violence or physical force. Frauds are perpetrated by parties and organizations to obtain money, property, or services; to avoid payment or loss of services; or to secure personal or business advantage.' 
Fraud may be perpetrated internally. 
Fraud may be perpetrated for the organization's benefit or for otherwise unselfish reasons. 
Fraud may be perpetrated by insiders and outsiders, and it may be either beneficial or detrimental to an organization. 
823
Which of the following wrongful acts committed by an employee constitutes fraud?
Libel. 
Embezzlement. 
Assault. 
Harassment. 
2
Question Explanation
10
Defamation is the unjustifiable communication (publication) to a third party of a false statement that injures the plaintiff s reputation and holds him/her up to hatred, contempt, or ridicule. Oral defamation is slander. Defamation published in more permanent form (newspaper, letter, film) is libel. 
Fraud is defined in the Glossary as 'any illegal act characterized by deceit, concealment, or violation of trust. These acts are not dependent upon the threat of violence or physical force. Frauds are perpetrated by parties and organizations to obtain money, property, or services; to avoid payment or loss of services; or to secure personal or business advantage.' Embezzlement is the intentional appropriation of property entrusted to one's care. The embezzler converts property to his/her own use and conceals the theft. 
The tort of assault entails placing another in reasonable fear of a harmful or offensive bodily contact. 
Harassment is the act of persistently annoying another. 
824
A key feature that distinguishes fraud from other types of crime or impropriety is that fraud
always involves the
Violent or forceful taking of property. 
Deceitful wrongdoing of management-level personnel. 
Unlawful conversion of property that is lawfully in the custody of the perpetrator. 
False representation or concealment of a material fact. 
4
Question Explanation
10
Fraud usually does not involve force or violence. 
Employees at any level in an organization can commit fraud. 
Embezzlement is the unlawful conversion of property that is lawfully in the custody of the perpetrator. 
Fraud is defined in the Glossary as 'any illegal act characterized by deceit, concealment, or violation of trust. These acts are not dependent upon the threat of violence or physical force. Frauds are perpetrated by parties and organizations to obtain money, property, or services; to avoid payment or loss of services; or to secure personal or business advantage.' 
825
One factor that distinguishes fraud from other employee crimes is that fraud involves
Intentional deception.
Personal gain for the perpetrator.
Collusion with a party outside the organization. 
Malicious motives. 
1
Question Explanation
10
Fraud is defined in the Glossary as 'any illegal act characterized by deceit, concealment, or violation of trust. These acts are not dependent upon the threat of violence or physical force. Frauds are perpetrated by parties and organizations to obtain money, property, or services; to avoid payment or loss of services; or to secure personal or business advantage.'
Fraud may be perpetrated for the organization's benefit or for otherwise unselfish reasons.
An employee may act alone. 
Fraud may be perpetrated for the organization's benefit or for otherwise unselfish reasons. 
826
In an organization with a separate division that is primarily responsible for the prevention of
fraud, the internal audit activity is responsible for

Examining and evaluating the adequacy and effectiveness of that division's actions taken to prevent fraud. 
Establishing and maintaining that division's system of internal control. 
Planning that division's fraud prevention activities. 
Controlling that division's fraud prevention activities. 
1
Question Explanation
10
Control is the principal mechanism for the prevention of fraud. Management, in tum, is primarily responsible for the establishment and maintenance of control. Internal auditors are primarily responsible for preventing fraud by examining and evaluating the adequacy and effectiveness of control. 
Establishing and maintaining control is a responsibility of management. 
Planning fraud prevention activities is a responsibility of management. 
Controlling fraud prevention activities is a responsibility of management. 
827
Which of the following statements is(are) true regarding the prevention of fraud?
I. The primary means of preventing fraud is through internal control established and
maintained by management.
II.Internal auditors are responsible for assisting in the prevention of fraud by examining and
evaluating the adequacy of the internal control system.
III.Internal auditors should assess the operating effectiveness of fraud-related communication

I only. 
land II only. 
II only. 
I, II, and III. 
4
Question Explanation
10
Internal auditors are responsible for assisting in the prevention of fraud by examining and evaluating the adequacy of the internal control system, and internal auditors should assess the operating effectiveness of fraud-related communication systems. 
Internal auditors should assess the operating effectiveness of fraud-related communication systems. 
The primary means of preventing fraud is through internal control established and maintained by management, and internal auditors should assess the operating effectiveness of fraud-related communication systems. 
The principal mechanism for preventing fraud is internal control. Responsibility for establishing and maintaining control rests with management. Furthermore, internal auditors are responsible for assisting in the prevention of fraud by examining and evaluating the adequacy and the effectiveness of the system of internal control, in proportion to the extent of the potential exposure within the organization. Internal auditors also should assess the operating effectiveness of fraud-related communication systems and practices and support fraud-related training. 
828
A significant employee fraud took place shortly after an internal auditing engagement. The
internal auditor may not have properly fulfilled the responsibility for the prevention of fraud by
failing to note and report that

Policies, practices, and procedures to monitor activities and safeguard assets were less extensive in low-risk areas than in high-risk areas. 
A system of control that depended upon separation of duties could be circumvented by collusion among three employees. 
There were no written policies describing prohibited activities and the action required whenever violations are discovered. 
Divisional employees had not been properly trained to distinguish between bona fide signatures and cleverly forged ones on authorization forms. 
3
Question Explanation
10
For cost'benefit reasons, controls should be more extensive in high-risk areas. 
Even the best system of control can often be circumvented by collusion. 
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal control. Thus, management also is responsible for the fraud prevention program. The control environment element of this program includes a code of conduct, ethics policy, or fraud policy to set the appropriate tone at the top. Moreover, organizations should establish effective fraud-related information and communication practices, for example, documentation and dissemination of policies, guidelines, and results. 
Forgery, like collusion, can circumvent even an effective control. 
829
Internal auditors have a responsibility for helping to deter fraud. Which of the following best
describes how this responsibility is usually met?

By coordinating with security personnel and law enforcement agencies in the investigation of possible frauds. 
By testing for fraud in every engagement and following up as appropriate. 
By assisting in the design of control systems to prevent fraud. 
By evaluating the adequacy and effectiveness of controls in light of the potential exposure or risk. 
4
Question Explanation
10
Investigating possible frauds involves detection, not deterrence. 
Testing for fraud in every engagement is not required. 
Designing systems impairs an internal auditor's objectivity (PA 1120-I).
Internal auditing is responsible for assisting in the deterrence of fraud by examining and evaluating the adequacy and the effectiveness of controls, commensurate with the extent of the potential exposure/risk in the various segments of the organization's operations. However, management, not internal auditing, is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal control. Moreover, given its inherent limitations, even effective internal control cannot provide more than reasonable assurance that fraud will be prevented. Thus, the internal auditor cannot guarantee that fraud will not occur. 
830
Which of the following describes one of the responsibilities of the internal auditor for the
deterrence of fraud in an organization?

Implementation of systems to discourage fraud. 
Prosecuting perpetrators of fraud. 
Reporting suspected fraud to law enforcement personnel. 
Evaluating the adequacy of controls to prevent fraud. 
4
Question Explanation
10
Implementing systems is an operating function for which management is responsible. 
It is a responsibility of management. 
It is a responsibility of management. 
Internal auditors are responsible for assisting in the deterrence of fraud by examining and evaluating the adequacy and the effectiveness of controls, commensurate with the extent of the potential exposure or risk in the various segments of the entity's operations. 
831
Internal auditing is responsible for assisting in the prevention of fraud by
Informing the appropriate authorities within the organization and recommending whatever investigation is considered necessary in the circumstances when wrongdoing is suspected. 
Establishing the organization's governance, operations, and information systems concerning compliance with laws, regulations, and contracts. 
Examining and evaluating the adequacy and the effectiveness of control, commensurate with the extent of the potential exposure or risk in the various segments of the organization's operations. 
Determining whether operating standards are acceptable and are being met.
2
Question Explanation
10
Informing appropriate authorities in the organization when the internal auditor suspects wrongdoing concerns the internal auditor's obligation for detecting, not preventing, fraud. 
Management is responsible for establishing these systems. 
Deterrence consists of those actions taken to discourage the perpetration of fraud and limit the exposure if fraud does occur. The principal mechanism for deterring fraud is control. Primary responsibility for establishing and maintaining control rests with management. However, internal auditors are responsible for assisting in the deterrence of fraud by examining and evaluating the adequacy and the effectiveness of control, commensurate with the extent of the potential exposure or risk in the various segments of the entity's operations. In carrying out this responsibility, internal auditors should, for example, determine whether the organizational environment fosters control consciousness; realistic organizational goals and objectives are set; written policies (e.g., a code of conduct) exist that describe prohibited activities and the action required whenever violations are discovered; appropriate authorization policies for transactions are established and maintained; policies, practices, procedures, reports, and other mechanisms are developed to monitor activities and safeguard assets, particularly in high-risk areas; communication channels provide management with adequate and reliable information; and recommendations need to be made for the establishment or enhancement of cost-effective controls to help deter fraud. 
These standards are criteria to determine whether operational objectives and goals have been accomplished. They do not concern prevention of fraud. 
832
The internal audit activity&quot; s responsibility for preventing fraud is to


Establish internal control. 
Maintain internal control. 
Evaluate the system of internal control. 
Exercise operating authority over fraud prevention activities. 
3
Question Explanation
10
Management's responsibility is to establish internal control. 
Management's responsibility is to maintain internal control. 
The principal mechanism for preventing fraud is control, and management has the primary responsibility for establishing and maintaining control. Internal auditors are responsible for assisting in the prevention of fraud by examining and evaluating the adequacy and the effectiveness of the system of internal control. 
The IAA will not be independent if it exercises operating authority. 
833
After noting some red flags, an internal auditor has an increased awareness that fraud may be
present. Which of the following best describes the internal auditor&quot;s responsibility?

Expand activities to determine whether an investigation is warranted.  
Report the possibility of fraud to senior management and the board and ask them how they would like to proceed.  
Consult with external legal counsel to determine the course of action to be taken, including the approval of the proposed engagement work program to make sure it is acceptable on legal grounds.  
Report the matter to the audit committee and request funding for outside service providers to help investigate the possible fraud. 
1
Question Explanation
10
An internal auditor's responsibilities for detecting fraud include evaluating fraud indicators and deciding whether any additional action is necessary or whether an investigation should be recommended. 
The internal auditor should notify the appropriate authorities within the organization if (s)he has determined that the indicators of fraud are sufficient to recommend an investigation.  
The internal auditor does not have the authority to consult with external legal counsel. 
The internal auditor should report the matter and request funding for outside service providers only if (s)he has determined that the indicators of fraud are sufficient to recommend an investigation. 
834
An internal auditor who suspects fraud should


Determine that a loss has been incurred.  
Interview those who have been involved in the control of assets.  
Identify the employees who could be implicated in the case.  
Recommend an investigation if appropriate.  
4
Question Explanation
10
Determining the loss could alert the perpetrator of the fraud. The perpetrator could then destroy or compromise evidence. 
Interviewing those who have been involved in the control of assets is part of the fraud investigation. 
Identifying the employees who could be implicated in the case is part of the fraud investigation. 
An internal auditor's responsibilities for detecting fraud include evaluating fraud indicators and deciding whether any additional action is necessary or whether an investigation should be recommended. 
835
The internal auditors&quot; responsibility regarding fraud includes all of the following except


Determining whether the control environment sets the appropriate tone at top. 
Ensuring that fraud will not occur. 
Being aware of activities in which fraud is likely to occur. 
Evaluating the effectiveness of control activities. 
2
Question Explanation
10
Internal auditing is responsible for evaluating the organization's control environment. 
Control is the principal mechanism for preventing fraud. Internal auditors are responsible for assisting in the prevention of fraud by examining and evaluating the adequacy and the effectiveness of the system of internal control, commensurate with the extent of the potential exposure in the organization. However, management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal control. Moreover, due professional care requires the conduct of examinations and verifications to a reasonable extent but does not require detailed reviews of all transactions. Thus, the internal auditors cannot give absolute assurance that noncompliance or irregularities do not exist. 
The internal auditor should have sufficient knowledge of fraud indicators and be alert to opportunities that could allow fraud. 
Assessing the design and operating effectiveness of fraud- related controls is the responsibility of internal auditing. 
836
An international nonprofit organization finances medical research. The majority of its revenue
and support comes from fundraising activties, investments, and specific grants from an initial
sponsoring corporation. The organization has been in operation over 15 years and has a small
internal audit department. The organization has just finished a major fundraising drive which
raised US $500 million for the current fiscal period.
The following are selected data from recent financial statements (dollar figures in millions):
                                       CurrentYear              Past Year
  Revenue                              US $500                  US $425
  Investments (average balances)           210                      185
  Medical research grants made             418                      325
  Investment income                        16                       20
  Administrative expense                   IO                        6

Auditors must always be alert for the possibility of fraud. Assume the controls over each risk
listed below are marginal. Which of the following possible frauds or misuses of organization
assets should be considered the area of greatest risk?
 

The president is using company travel and entertainment funds for activities that might be considered questionable.  
Purchases of supplies are made from fictitious vendors.  
Grants are made to organizations that might be associated with the president or are not for purposes dictated in the organization's charter. 
The payroll clerk has added ghost employees. 
3
Question Explanation
10
Administrative expense is 2% (IO  500) of current revenue. 
Purchases of supplies from fictitious vendors involve risk exposures that are far less than those arising from inappropriate grants. 
Grants represent 83.6% (418  500) of current revenue. Consequently, fraudulent grants constitute a much greater risk exposure than any of the other items listed. 
The payroll clerk's addition of ghost employees involve risk exposures that are far less than those arising from inappropriate grants. 
837
Internal auditors are more likely to detect fraud by developing/strengthening their ability to


Recognize and question changes that occur in organizations. 
Interrogate fraud perpetrators to discover why the fraud was committed. 
Develop internal controls to prevent the occurrence of fraud. 
Document computerized operating system programs. 
1
Question Explanation
10
The responsibilities of internal auditors for detecting fraud include having sufficient knowledge of fraud to be able to identify indicators that fraud may have been committed. Fraud may be indicated by negative organizational changes. Thus, the recognition and questioning of change is critical to the detection of fraud. 
Interrogation of fraud perpetrators occurs after detection. The danger signals of fraud often involve negative organizational changes. 
The controls mentioned are preventive, not detective. 
Documentation of operating systems is not within the scope of internal auditing and would do little to enhance fraud detection skills. 
838
When an internal auditor identifies multiple factors that have been linked with possible
fraudulent conditions, and suspects that fraud has taken place, the auditor should

Immediately report to senior management and the board. 
Immediately report to the board. 
Recommend an investigation. 
Extend tests to determine the extent of the fraud. 
3
Question Explanation
10
Immediate reporting by the CAE to senior management and the board is required only after a sufficient investigation has been made to establish reasonable certainty that a significant fraud has occurred. Thus, reasonable certainty is necessary before any fraud reporting is made. 
Immediate reporting by the CAE to senior management and the board is required only after a sufficient investigation has been made to establish reasonable certainty that a significant fraud has occurred. Thus, reasonable certainty is necessary before any fraud reporting is made. 
In conducting engagements, the internal auditor should evaluate the indicators of fraud and decide whether any further action is necessary or whether an investigation should be recommended. 
Extended tests to determine the extent of fraud are performed after the fraud has in fact been determined, not suspected. 
839
An internal auditor suspects that a mailroom clerk is embezzling funds. In exercising due
professional care, the internal auditor should

Reassign the clerk to another department. 
Institute stricter controls over mailroom operations.
Evaluate fraud indicators and decide whether further action is necessary. 
Confront the clerk with the auditor's suspicions. 
3
Question Explanation
10
The internal auditor has no operating responsibility, e.g., for assigning personnel or implementing controls. 
The internal auditor has no operating responsibility, e.g., for assigning personnel or implementing controls. 
In conducting audits, the internal auditor should (I) consider fraud risks in assessing control design and determining audit procedures; (2) have sufficient fraud knowledge to identify red flags; (3) be alert to opportunities for fraud (especially significant control deficiencies); (4) evaluate whether (a) management is actively evaluating the fraud risk management program, (b) timely and sufficient corrective actions have been taken regarding identified control deficiencies, and (c) the plan for monitoring the program is adequate; (5) evaluate fraud indicators and decide whether further action is necessary or an investigation should be recommended; and (6) recommend an investigation if appropriate. Any incident of significant fraud or erosion of trust must be timely reported to senior management and the board. 
An internal auditor should not confront a suspect until the proper authorities have been notified and have determined the appropriate action. 
840
An internal auditor&quot;s field work uncovers a series of transactions that indicate a possible
embezzlement. Which of the following actions should the chief audit executive take?

Confront the suspected embezzler to determine that the facts are correct. 
Review the finding with the suspect's fellow workers to see whether the workers can furnish additional evidence. 
Decide whether to recommend an investigation. 
Discuss the case with the board. 
3
Question Explanation
10
The internal auditor should avoid confronting suspected employees. Employees suspected of theft or fraud have certain common law and statutory rights that, if infringed upon, can be costly to the organization. 
Fellow workers may also be involved in the embezzlement. 
In conducting engagements, the internal auditor should evaluate the indicators of fraud and decide whether any further action is necessary or whether an investigation should be recommended. 
In conducting engagements, the internal auditor should evaluate the indicators of fraud and decide whether any further action is necessary or whether an investigation should be recommended. Senior management and the board must be timely notified of any incident of significant fraud or erosion of trust. 
841
A chief audit executive obtains factual documentation of unethical business dealings by the
vice president in charge of internal auditing. The CAE should

Conduct an investigation to determine the extent of the vice president's personal involvement in the unethical conduct. 
Confront the vice president with the information before proceeding. 
Schedule an engagement to review the involved business function. 
Report the facts to the chief executive officer and the audit committee. 
4
Question Explanation
10
The first step is to notify the senior management and the board. 
The actual investigation should probably be carried on by someone expert in criminal investigation. 
The decision whether to perform an engagement is secondary to the immediate obligation to report the facts. 
Any incident of significant fraud or erosion of trust should be timely reported to senior management and the board. 
842
An internal auditor is performing an operational engagement at a division and observes that an
unusually large quantity of goods is on hand in the shipping and materials rework areas. The
items are labeled as re-ship items. Upon inquiry the internal auditor is told that these are goods
that have been returned by customers and have either been repaired and shipped back to the
original customer or repaired and shipped out as new products because they are fully warranted.
Assume the internal auditor found that most of the goods were repaired and sold as new items.
Such sales are both (I) against organizational policy and (2) against governmental regulations.
The internal auditor does not know whether fraud was involved or the extent of divisional
management&quot;s involvement in the scheme. The internal auditor should report the observations
to

Divisional management only because it is responsible for correcting the problem. 
Divisional management and relevant regulatory bodies. 
Divisional management, the board, and senior management. 
The board and senior management only. 
3
Question Explanation
10
Divisional management, the board, and senior management should be informed. 
The internal auditor is not responsible for reporting such observations to a regulatory body. The internal auditor needs to report the observations to the appropriate authorities within the organization. 
Results should be communicated to those with authority to ensure that corrective action is taken. Reporting to divisional management is appropriate because the internal auditor does not know whether fraud was involved or the extent of lower management's involvement. When an internal auditor suspects wrongdoing, appropriate authorities within the organization should be informed and whatever investigation is necessary in the circumstances should be recommended. Thereafter, the internal auditor should follow up. Furthermore, the CAE should report immediately any incident of significant fraud to senior management and the board. However, a sufficient investigation must be conducted to establish to a reasonable certainty that a fraud has occurred before any fraud reporting is made. Accordingly, fraud reporting is not appropriate but senior management and the board nevertheless should be informed because they are appropriate authorities within the organization, given the seriousness of the matter. 
The observations should also be reviewed with divisional management. 
843
An auditor uncovers a plan to overstate inventory and thereby increase reported profits for a
division. The auditor has substantial evidence that the divisional manager was aware of and
approved the plan to overstate inventory. There is also some evidence that the manager may
have been responsible for the implementation of the plan. The auditor should

Continue to conduct interviews with subordinates until a definite case is made, and then report the case to the audit committee. 
Inform senior management and the audit committee of the findings and discuss possible further investigation. 
Inform the divisional manager of the auditor's suspicions and obtain the manager's explanation of the findings before pursuing the matter further. 
Document the case thoroughly and report the suspicions to the external auditor for further review. 
2
Question Explanation
10
The auditor has sufficient evidence to bring the matter to the attention of senior management and the audit committee. They can then decide the method of further investigation. 
Any incident of significant fraud or erosion of trust should be timely reported to senior management and the board. Furthermore, The IIA Code of Ethics states, 'Internal auditors shall disclose all material facts known to them that, if not disclosed, may distort the reporting of activities under review.' 
Divisional management should not be informed about the auditor's suspicions. It is appropriate to interview divisional management but only for data gathering purposes. 
The auditor's responsibility is to report inside the organization. 
844
Which of the following best describes an auditor&quot;s responsibility after noting some indicators
of fraud?

Expand activities to determine whether an investigation is warranted. 
Report the possibility of fraud to senior management and ask how to proceed. 
Consult with external legal counsel to determine the course of action to be taken. 
Report the matter to the audit committee and request funding for outside specialists to help investigate the possible fraud. 
1
Question Explanation
10
An internal auditor's responsibilities for detecting fraud include evaluating fraud indicators and deciding whether any additional action is necessary or whether an investigation should be recommended. 
The internal auditor should notify senior management and the board only if (s)he has determined that the indicators of fraud are sufficient to recommend an investigation. 
The internal auditor does not have the authority to consult with external legal counsel. 
The internal auditor should notify the audit committee only if (s)he has determined that the indicators of fraud are sufficient to recommend an investigation. 
845
When conducting fraud investigations, internal auditors should
Clearly indicate the extent of the internal auditors' knowledge of the fraud when questioning suspects. 
Assign personnel to the investigation in accordance with the engagement schedule established at the beginning of the fiscal year. 
Perform its investigation independently of lawyers, security personnel, and specialists from outside the organization who are involved in the investigation. 
Assess the probable level of, and the extent of complicity in, the fraud within the organization. 
4
Question Explanation
10
By always giving the impression that additional evidence is in reserve, the internal auditors are more apt to obtain complete and truthful answers. 
Fraud investigations usually occur unexpectedly and cannot be scheduled in advance. Also, the fraud investigation must be conducted by individuals having the appropriate expertise, even if another engagement must be delayed. 
The internal auditors should coordinate their activities with management, legal counsel, and other specialists. 
When conducting fraud investigations, internal auditors or others should assess the level of, and the extent of complicity in, the fraud within the organization. This assessment can be critical to ensuring that (I) crucial evidence is not tainted or destroyed and (2) misleading information is not obtained from persons who may be involved 
846
Which of the following gives the internal auditor the authority to investigate fraud?
The Standards.  
Common law. 
Management. 
The Institute of Internal Auditors Code of Ethics. 
3
Question Explanation
10
The internal auditor has authority only to recommend an investigation. 
An internal auditor has no authority under common law. 
The internal auditor may recommend whatever investigation is considered necessary in the circumstances. Ordinarily, specialists should investigate fraud. Any investigation undertaken by internal auditors must be authorized by management. 
The IIA Code of Ethics does not mention fraud investigation. 
847
The internal audit activity has concluded a fraud investigation that revealed a previously
undiscovered materially adverse impact on the financial position and results of operations for 2
years on which financial statements have already been issued. The chief audit executive should
immediately inform

The external auditing firm responsible for the financial statements affected by the discovery. 
The appropriate governmental or regulatory agency. 
Senior management and the board. 
The internal accounting function ultimately responsible for making corrective journal entries. 
3
Question Explanation
10
Management should communicate with the external auditors. 
Management should communicate with the governmental agencies. 
The CAE is responsible for timely reporting of any incident of significant fraud or erosion of trust to senior management and the board. This includes a previously undiscovered materially adverse effect on the financial position and results of operations of an organization for 1 or more years on which financial statements have already been issued. 
Management should communicate with the accounting function. 
848
After completing an investigation, internal auditing has concluded that an employee has stolen
a significant amount of cash receipts. A draft of the proposed communication on this
observation should be submitted for review to

Legal counsel. 
The board. 
The chief executive officer of the organization. 
The organization's outside auditors. 
1
Question Explanation
10
The internal auditor must be concerned about the possibility of inclusion (and dissemination) of a statement for which the accused employee could sue the organization. Thus, a draft of the proposed final communications on fraud should be submitted to legal counsel for review. If the internal auditor wants to invoke client privilege, consideration should be given to addressing the report to legal counsel. 
The board should receive a final draft of the report after it has been reviewed and approved by legal counsel. 
If appropriate, the CEO may receive a final draft of the report after it has been reviewed and approved by legal counsel. 
If it is customary to send the outside auditors copies of all internal auditing reports, they should receive a final draft that has been reviewed and approved by legal counsel. 
849
Prior to issuing a final communication on a fraud investigation, the internal auditor should
submit a proposed draft for review by the

Organization's legal counsel. 
Engagement client's management. 
Organization's public relations department. 
Board. 
1
Question Explanation
10
A draft of the proposed final communications on fraud should be submitted to legal counsel for review. When the internal auditor wants to invoke client privilege, consideration should be given to addressing the report to legal counsel. 
There is not always an identifiable engagement client, and review by such a client is not always appropriate. 
Publicity is inappropriate when the final communication has not been completed. 
The board should receive the final communication, not the proposed draft. 
850
An internal auditor is performing an operational engagement at a division and observes that an
unusually large quantity of goods is on hand in the shipping and materials rework areas. The
items are labeled as re-ship items. Upon inquiry the internal auditor is told that these are goods
that have been returned by customers and have either been repaired and shipped back to the
original customer or repaired and shipped out as new products because they are fully warranted.
Assume that subsequent investigation shows that previously issued financial statements were
materially misstated due to the improper recognition of sales. The internal auditor&quot;s next step
should be to

Immediately inform the external auditor and the divisional manager. 
Inform divisional management of the preliminary observation, but wait until a formal engagement communication is issued to inform the board. 
Inform the external auditor, senior management, and the board. 
Inform senior management and the board. 
4
Question Explanation
10
The auditor should inform senior management, the board, and the audit committee. 
The auditor should inform senior management, the board, and the audit committee. 
The auditor should inform senior management, the board, and the audit committee. 
The results of a fraud investigation may indicate that fraud has had a previously undiscovered materially adverse effect on the financial position and results of operations of an organization for one or more years on which financial statements have already been issued. Internal auditors should inform appropriate management and the audit committee of the board of directors of such a discovery. 
851
Questions used to interrogate individuals suspected of fraud should

Adhere to a predetermined order. 
Cover more than one subject or topic. 
Move from the general to the specific. 
Direct the individual to a desired answer. 
3
Question Explanation
10
The interviewee's answer may suggest a follow-up question that should be asked before asking the next planned question. 
This interviewing technique may be confusing for the respondent. 
Internal auditors should be skilled in dealing with people and in communicating effectively. One important communications skill is the ability to conduct an effective interview. For example, initial questions in a fraud interview should be broad. In contrast with a directive approach emphasizing narrowly focused questions, this nondirective approach is more likely to elicit clarifications and unexpected observations from employees who are under suspicion. 
The interrogator should avoid leading questions, that is, questions that suggest an answer. 
852
Red flags are conditions that indicate a higher likelihood of fraud. Which of the following is
not considered a red flag?

Management has delegated the authority to make purchases under a certain value to subordinates. 
An individual has held the same cash-handling job for an extended period without any rotation of duties. 
An individual handling marketable securities is responsible for making the purchases, recording the purchases, and reporting any discrepancies and gains/losses to senior management. 
The assignment of responsibility and accountability in the accounts receivable department is not clear. 
1
Question Explanation
10
Delegating the authority to make purchases under a certain value to subordinates is an acceptable and common practice intended to limit risk while promoting efficiency. It is not, by itself, considered a red flag. 
Lack of rotation of duties or cross-'training for sensitive jobs is a red flag. Such a person may have a greater opportunity to commit and conceal fraud. 
An inappropriate combination of duties is a red flag. 
Establishing clear lines of authority and accountability not only helps to assign culpability but also has preventive effects. 
853
Which of the following policies is most likely to result in an environment conducive to the
occurrence of fraud?

Budget preparation input by the employees who are responsible for meeting the budget.
Unreasonable sales and production goals. 
The division's hiring process frequently results in the rejection of adequately trained applicants. 
The application of some accounting controls on a sample basis. 
2
Question Explanation
10
Participatory budgeting can reduce antagonism to budgets and reduce the likelihood of inappropriate means of meeting the budget. 
Unrealistically high sales or production quotas can be an incentive to falsify the records or otherwise take inappropriate action to improve performance measures so that the quotas appear to have been met. 
Hiring policies should be based on factors other than adequate training, such as the applicants' personal integrity. Furthermore, hiring of all adequately trained applicants is unlikely to be necessary. 
Under the reasonable assurance concept, the cost of controls should not exceed their benefits. The cost of applying controls to all relevant transactions rather than a sample may be greater than the resultant savings. 
854
The following are facts about a subsidiary:
1.The subsidiary has been in business for several years and enjoyed good profit margins
although the general economy was in a recession, which affected competitors.
2.The working capital ratio has declined from a healthy 3:1 to 0.9:1.
3.Turnover for the last several years has included three controllers, two supervisors of
accounts receivable, four payables supervisors, and numerous staff in other financial
positions.
4.Purchasing policy requires three bids. However, the supervisor of purchasing at the
subsidiary has instituted a policy of sole-source procurement to reduce the number of
suppliers.
When conducting a financial audit of the subsidiary, the internal auditor should


Most likely not detect 1., 2., or 3. 
Ignore 2. since the economy had a downturn during this period. 
Consider 3. to be normal turnover, but be concerned about 2. and 4. as warning signals of fraud. 
Consider I ., 2., 3 ., and 4. as warning signals of fraud. 
4
Question Explanation
10
The items described can be detected through usual procedures in a financial audit. 
Although the economy suffered a downturn, the change in working capital is unusual in light of the continuing strong profit margins and should be investigated. 
The working capital ratio, the high employee turnover rate, and the sole-source procurement policy are all warning signals of fraud. 
That the organization has reported high profits when competitors have not may indicate a misstatement of the financial statements. Insufficient working capital may indicate such problems as overexpansion, decreases in revenues, transfers of funds to other organizations, insufficient credit, and excessive expenditures. The internal auditor should be alert for the diversion of funds for personal use through such methods as unrecorded sales and falsified expenditures. Rapid turnover in financial positions may signify existing problems with which the individuals feel uncomfortable but that they do not want to disclose. Accountability for funds and other resources should be determined upon termination of employment. Use of sole-source procurement does not encourage competition to ensure that the organization is obtaining the required materials or equipment at the best price. Sole-source procurement, if not adequately justified, indicates potential favoritism or kickbacks. 
855
Internal auditors have been advised to consider red flags to determine whether management is
involved in a fraud. Which of the following does not represent a difficulty in using the red flags
as fraud indicators?

Many common red flags are also associated with situations in which no fraud exists. 
Some red flags are difficult to quantify or to evaluate. 
Red flag information is not gathered as a normal part of an engagement. 
The red flags literature is not well enough established to have a positive impact on internal auditing. 
4
Question Explanation
10
Red flags are developed by correlation analysis, not necessarily by causation analysis. 
Many red flags, such as management's attitude, are difficult to quantify. 
Internal auditors should be able to identify fraud indicators and should be alert to opportunities that could allow fraud. However, internal auditors do not normally perform procedures specifically to gather red flag information. 
The state of red flags literature is not a difficulty. It is well established and will be refined in the future as research is done. Thus, it does not preclude consideration of red flags. 
856
An internal auditor should be concerned about the possibility of fraud if

Cash receipts, net of the amounts used to pay petty cash-type expenditures, are deposited in           the bank daily. 
The monthly bank statement reconciliation is performed by the same employee who maintains the perpetual inventory records. 
The accounts receivable subsidiary ledger and accounts payable subsidiary ledger are maintained by the same person. 
One person, acting alone, has sole access to the petty cash fund (except for a provision for occasional surprise counts by a supervisor or auditor). 
1
Question Explanation
10
Paying petty cash expenditures from cash receipts facilitates the unauthorized removal of cash before deposit. All cash receipts should be deposited intact daily. Petty cash expenditures should be handled through an imprest fund. 
The monthly bank reconciliation should not be performed by a person who makes deposits or writes checks, but the inventory clerk has no such responsibilities. 
There is no direct relationship between the transactions posted to the accounts receivable and accounts payable subsidiary ledgers; having the same person maintain both does not create a control weakness. 
To establish accountability for petty cash, only one person should have access to the fund. 
857
Randy and John had known each other for
many years. They had become best friends in
college, where they both majored in
accounting. After graduation, Randy took
over the family business from his father. His
family had been in the grocery business for
several generations. When John had
difficulty finding a job, Randy offered him a
job in the family store. John proved to be a
very capable employee. As John
demonstrated his abilities, Randy began
delegating more and more responsibility to
him. After a period of time, John was doing
all of the general accounting and
authorization functions for checks, cash,
inventories, documents, records, and bank
reconciliations. (I) John was trusted
completely and handled all  financial
functions. No one checked his work.
Randy decided to expand the business and
opened several new stores. (2) Randy was
always handling the most urgent problem . ..
crisis management is what his college
professors had termed it. John assisted with
the problems when his other duties allowed
him time.
Although successful at work, John had (3)
dculties with personal jlnancial problems.
At first, the amounts stolen by John were
small. John didn&quot;t even worry about making
the accounts balance. But John became greedy.
&quot;How easy it is to take the money,&quot; he said.
He felt that he was a critical member of the
business team (4)  and that he contributed
much more to the success of the company than
was represented by his salary. It would take
two or three people to replace me, he often
thought to himself. As the amounts became
larger and larger, (5) he made the books
balance. Because of these activities, John was
able to purchase an expensive car and take his
family on several trips each year. (6) He also
Joined an expensive country club. Things were
changing at home, however. (7)  John &quot;s family
observed that he was often argumentative and
at other times very depressed.
The fraud continued for 6 years. Each year the
business performed more and more poorly. In
the last year, the stores had a substantial net
loss. Randy&quot;s bank required an audit. John
confessed when he thought the auditors had
discovered his embezzlements.
When discussing frauds, the pressures,
opportunities, and rationalizations that
cause/allow a perpetrator to commit the fraud
are often identified. Symptoms of fraud are
also studied.
Number I , &quot;John was trusted completely . .,&quot;
is an example of a(n)


Document symptom. 
Situational pressure. 
Opportunity to commit. 
Physical symptom. 
3
Question Explanation
10
Complete trust is an opportunity to commit a fraud. 
Complete trust is an opportunity to commit a fraud. 
Complete trust in an individual represents an opportunity to commit fraud. Johns actions went unscrutinized because of the absence of an appropriate segregation of functions and his ability to override whatever control procedures were in place. 
Complete trust is an opportunity to commit a fraud. 
858
Randy and John had known each other for
many years. They had become best friends in
college, where they both majored in
accounting. After graduation, Randy took
over the family business from his father. His
family had been in the grocery business for
several generations. When John had
difficulty finding a job, Randy offered him a
job in the family store. John proved to be a
very capable employee. As John
demonstrated his abilities, Randy began
delegating more and more responsibility to
him. After a period of time, John was doing
all of the general accounting and
authorization functions for checks, cash,
inventories, documents, records, and bank
reconciliations. (I) John was trusted
completely and handled all  financial
functions. No one checked his work.
Randy decided to expand the business and
opened several new stores. (2) Randy was
always handling the most urgent problem . ..
crisis management is what his college
professors had termed it. John assisted with
the problems when his other duties allowed
him time.
Although successful at work, John had (3)
dculties with personaljinancial problems.
At first, the amounts stolen by John were
small. John didn&quot;t even worry about making
the accounts balance. But John became greedy.
&quot;How easy it is to take the money,&quot; he said.
He felt that he was a critical member of the
business team (4)  and that he contributed
much more to the success of the company than
was represented by his salary. It would take
two or three people to replace me, he often
thought to himself. As the amounts became
larger and larger, (5) he made the books
balance. Because of these activities, John was
able to purchase an expensive car and take his
family on several trips each year. (6) He a/so
Joined an expensive country club. Things were
changing at home, however. (7)  John &quot;s family
observed that he was often argumentative and
at other times very depressed.
The fraud continued for 6 years. Each year the
business performed more and more poorly. In
the last year, the stores had a substantial net
loss. Randy&quot;s bank required an audit. John
confessed when he thought the auditors had
discovered his embezzlements.
When discussing frauds, the pressures,
opportunities, and rationalizations that
cause/allow a perpetrator to commit the fraud
are often identified. Symptoms of fraud are
also studied.
Number 2, &quot;Randy was always handling the most urgent .,&quot; is an example of a(n)

Opportunity to commit. 
Analytical symptom. 
Situational pressure. 
Rationalization. 
1
Question Explanation
10
When a manager continually handles the most pressing issues of a company, an opportunity for the manager to commit fraud is created. The lack of long-range planning creates a potential for fraud because organizational objectives may have been replaced with individual initiatives. 
Crisis management provides an opportunity to commit fraud. 
Crisis management provides an opportunity to commit fraud. 
Crisis management provides an opportunity to commit fraud. 
859
Randy and John had known each other for
many years. They had become best friends in
college, where they both majored in
accounting. After graduation, Randy took
over the family business from his father. His
family had been in the grocery business for
several generations. When John had
difficulty finding a job, Randy offered him a
job in the family store. John proved to be a
very capable employee. As John
demonstrated his abilities, Randy began
delegating more and more responsibility to
him. After a period of time, John was doing
all of the general accounting and
authorization functions for checks, cash,
inventories, documents, records, and bank
reconciliations. (I) John was trusted
completely and handled all  financial
functions. No one checked his work.
Randy decided to expand the business and
opened several new stores. (2) Randy was
always handling the most urgent problem . ..
crisis management is what his college
professors had termed it. John assisted with
the problems when his other duties allowed
him time.
Although successful at work, John had (3)
dculties with personal jlnancial problems.
At first, the amounts stolen by John were
small. John didn&quot;t even worry about making
the accounts balance. But John became greedy.
&quot;How easy it is to take the money,&quot; he said.
He felt that he was a critical member of the
business team (4)  and that he contributed
much more to the success of the company than
was represented by his salary. It would take
two or three people to replace me, he often
thought to himself. As the amounts became
larger and larger, (5) he made the books
balance. Because of these activities, John was
able to purchase an expensive car and take his
family on several trips each year. (6) He a/so
Joined an expensive country club. Things were
changing at home, however. (7)  John &quot;s family
observed that he was often argumentative and
at other times very depressed.
The fraud continued for 6 years. Each year the
business performed more and more poorly. In
the last year, the stores had a substantial net
loss. Randy&quot;s bank required an audit. John
confessed when he thought the auditors had
discovered his embezzlements.
When discussing frauds, the pressures,
opportunities, and rationalizations that
cause/allow a perpetrator to commit the fraud
are often identified. Symptoms of fraud are
also studied.
Number 3, &quot;Difficulties with personal financial
problems,&quot; is an example of a(n)


Behavioral symptom. 
Situational pressure. 
Rationalization. 
Opportunity to commit. 
2
Question Explanation
10
Personal financial problems are a situational pressure to commit a fraud. 
Financial difficulties create situational pressures or temptations that may contribute to fraud. These situational pressures result from high personal indebtedness, extravagant lifestyles, gambling problems, etc. 
Personal financial problems are a situational pressure to commit a fraud. 
Personal financial problems are a situational pressure to commit a fraud. 
860
Randy and John had known each other for
many years. They had become best friends in
college, where they both majored in
accounting. After graduation, Randy took
over the family business from his father. His
family had been in the grocery business for
several generations. When John had
difficulty finding a job, Randy offered him a
job in the family store. John proved to be a
very capable employee. As John
demonstrated his abilities, Randy began
delegating more and more responsibility to
him. After a period of time, John was doing
all of the general accounting and
authorization functions for checks, cash,
inventories, documents, records, and bank
reconciliations. (I) John was trusted
completely and handled all  financial
functions. No one checked his work.
Randy decided to expand the business and
opened several new stores. (2) Randy was
always handling the most urgent problem . ..
crisis management is what his college
professors had termed it. John assisted with
the problems when his other duties allowed
him time.
Although successful at work, John had (3)
dculties with personal jlnancial problems.
At first, the amounts stolen by John were
small. John didn&quot;t even worry about making
the accounts balance. But John became greedy.
&quot;How easy it is to take the money,&quot; he said.
He felt that he was a critical member of the
business team (4)  and that he contributed
much more to the success of the company than
was represented by his salary. It would take
two or three people to replace me, he often
thought to himself. As the amounts became
larger and larger, (5) he made the books
balance. Because of these activities, John was
able to purchase an expensive car and take his
family on several trips each year. (6) He a/so
Joined an expensive country club. Things were
changing at home, however. (7)  John &quot;s family
observed that he was often argumentative and
at other times very depressed.
The fraud continued for 6 years. Each year the
business performed more and more poorly. In
the last year, the stores had a substantial net
loss. Randy&quot;s bank required an audit. John
confessed when he thought the auditors had
discovered his embezzlements.
When discussing frauds, the pressures,
opportunities, and rationalizations that
cause/allow a perpetrator to commit the fraud
are often identified. Symptoms of fraud are
also studied.
Number 4, &quot;and that he contributed much more .,&quot; is an example of a

Rationalization. 
Behavioral symptom. 
Situational pressure. 
Physical symptom. 
1
Question Explanation
10
Rationalization occurs when one attributes actions to rational and creditable motives without analysis of one's true and especially unconscious motives. Thus, a feeling that one is contributing more than one is paid would be a rationalization for committing fraud. 
The belief that compensation is inadequate is a possible rationalization for improprieties. 
The belief that compensation is inadequate is a possible rationalization for improprieties. 
The belief that compensation is inadequate is a possible rationalization for improprieties. 
861
Randy and John had known each other for
many years. They had become best friends in
college, where they both majored in
accounting. After graduation, Randy took
over the family business from his father. His
family had been in the grocery business for
several generations. When John had
difficulty finding a job, Randy offered him a
job in the family store. John proved to be a
very capable employee. As John
demonstrated his abilities, Randy began
delegating more and more responsibility to
him. After a period of time, John was doing
all of the general accounting and
authorization functions for checks, cash,
inventories, documents, records, and bank
reconciliations. (I) John was trusted
completely and handled all  financial
functions. No one checked his work.
Randy decided to expand the business and
opened several new stores. (2) Randy was
always handling the most urgent problem . ..
crisis management is what his college
professors had termed it. John assisted with
the problems when his other duties allowed
him time.
Although successful at work, John had (3)
dculties with personaljinancial problems.
At first, the amounts stolen by John were
small. John didn&quot;t even worry about making
the accounts balance. But John became greedy.
&quot;How easy it is to take the money,&quot; he said.
He felt that he was a critical member of the
business team (4)  and that he contributed
much more to the success of the company than
was represented by his salary. It would take
two or three people to replace me, he often
thought to himself. As the amounts became
larger and larger, (5) he made the books
balance. Because of these activities, John was
able to purchase an expensive car and take his
family on several trips each year. (6) He a/so
Joined an expensive country club. Things were
changing at home, however. (7)  John &quot;s family
observed that he was often argumentative and
at other times very depressed.
The fraud continued for 6 years. Each year the
business performed more and more poorly. In
the last year, the stores had a substantial net
loss. Randy&quot;s bank required an audit. John
confessed when he thought the auditors had
discovered his embezzlements.
When discussing frauds, the pressures,
opportunities, and rationalizations that
cause/allow a perpetrator to commit the fraud
are often identified. Symptoms of fraud are
also studied.
Number 5, &quot;he made the books balance,&quot; is an example of a(n)
Physical symptom. 
Analytical symptom. 
Lifestyle symptom. 
Document symptom. 
4
Question Explanation
10
Making the 'books balance' is an example of a document symptom. 
Making the 'books balance' is an example of a document symptom. 
Making the 'books balance' is an example of a document symptom. 
Tampering with the company's books is a document symptom. In other words, the indicator of fraud consists of the changes in actual company records. 
862
Randy and John had known each other for
many years. They had become best friends in
college, where they both majored in
accounting. After graduation, Randy took
over the family business from his father. His
family had been in the grocery business for
several generations. When John had
difficulty finding a job, Randy offered him a
job in the family store. John proved to be a
very capable employee. As John
demonstrated his abilities, Randy began
delegating more and more responsibility to
him. After a period of time, John was doing
all of the general accounting and
authorization functions for checks, cash,
inventories, documents, records, and bank
reconciliations. (I) John was trusted
completely and handled all  financial
functions. No one checked his work.
Randy decided to expand the business and
opened several new stores. (2) Randy was
always handling the most urgent problem . ..
crisis management is what his college
professors had termed it. John assisted with
the problems when his other duties allowed
him time.
Although successful at work, John had (3)
dculties with personal jlnancial problems.
At first, the amounts stolen by John were
small. John didn&quot;t even worry about making
the accounts balance. But John became greedy.
&quot;How easy it is to take the money,&quot; he said.
He felt that he was a critical member of the
business team (4)  and that he contributed
much more to the success of the company than
was represented by his salary. It would take
two or three people to replace me, he often
thought to himself. As the amounts became
larger and larger, (5) he made the books
balance. Because of these activities, John was
able to purchase an expensive car and take his
family on several trips each year. (6) He a/so
Joined an expensive country club. Things were
changing at home, however. (7)  John &quot;s family
observed that he was often argumentative and
at other times very depressed.
The fraud continued for 6 years. Each year the
business performed more and more poorly. In
the last year, the stores had a substantial net
loss. Randy&quot;s bank required an audit. John
confessed when he thought the auditors had
discovered his embezzlements.
When discussing frauds, the pressures,
opportunities, and rationalizations that
cause/allow a perpetrator to commit the fraud
are often identified. Symptoms of fraud are
also studied.
Number 6, &quot;He also joined an expensive country club,&quot; is an example of a


Rationalization. 
Lifestyle symptom. 
Behavioral symptom. 
Physical symptom. 
2
Question Explanation
10
Joining an expensive country club is an example of a lifestyle symptom. 
John was living beyond his means. The change in lifestyle was a symptom that indicated the presence of fraud. 
Joining an expensive country club is an example of a lifestyle symptom. 
Joining an expensive country club is an example of a lifestyle symptom. 
863
Randy and John had known each other for
many years. They had become best friends in
college, where they both majored in
accounting. After graduation, Randy took
over the family business from his father. His
family had been in the grocery business for
several generations. When John had
difficulty finding a job, Randy offered him a
job in the family store. John proved to be a
very capable employee. As John
demonstrated his abilities, Randy began
delegating more and more responsibility to
him. After a period of time, John was doing
all of the general accounting and
authorization functions for checks, cash,
inventories, documents, records, and bank
reconciliations. (I) John was trusted
completely and handled all  financial
functions. No one checked his work.
Randy decided to expand the business and
opened several new stores. (2) Randy was
always handling the most urgent problem . ..
crisis management is what his college
professors had termed it. John assisted with
the problems when his other duties allowed
him time.
Although successful at work, John had (3)
dculties with personal jlnancial problems.
At first, the amounts stolen by John were
small. John didn&quot;t even worry about making
the accounts balance. But John became greedy.
&quot;How easy it is to take the money,&quot; he said.
He felt that he was a critical member of the
business team (4)  and that he contributed
much more to the success of the company than
was represented by his salary. It would take
two or three people to replace me, he often
thought to himself. As the amounts became
larger and larger, (5) he made the books
balance. Because of these activities, John was
able to purchase an expensive car and take his
family on several trips each year. (6) He a/so
Joined an expensive country club. Things were
changing at home, however. (7)  John &quot;s family
observed that he was often argumentative and
at other times very depressed.
The fraud continued for 6 years. Each year the
business performed more and more poorly. In
the last year, the stores had a substantial net
loss. Randy&quot;s bank required an audit. John
confessed when he thought the auditors had
discovered his embezzlements.
When discussing frauds, the pressures,
opportunities, and rationalizations that
cause/allow a perpetrator to commit the fraud
are often identified. Symptoms of fraud are
also studied.
Number 7, &quot;John&quot;s family observed that he was often argumentative .,&quot; is an example of a
Rationalization. 
Lifestyle symptom. 
Behavioral symptom. 
Physical symptom. 
3
Question Explanation
10
Being argumentative is an example of a behavioral symptom. 
Being argumentative is an example of a behavioral symptom. 
A drastic change in an employee's behavior may indicate the presence of fraud. The guilt and the other forms of stress associated with perpetrating and concealing the fraud may induce noticeable changes in behavior. 
Being argumentative is an example of a behavioral symptom. 
864
When comparing perpetrators who have embezzled an organization&quot;s funds with perpetrators of
financial statement fraud (falsified financial statements), those who have falsified financial
statements are less likely to

Have experienced an autocratic management style. 
Be living beyond their obvious means of support.  
Rationalize the fraudulent behavior. 
Use organizational expectations as justification for the act. 
2
Question Explanation
10
Autocratic management styles have been linked to management (financial statement) fraud. 
Living beyond one's means has been linked to employee fraud (embezzlement), not to financial statement fraud. Fraud perpetrated for the benefit of the organization ordinarily benefits the wrongdoer indirectly, whereas fraud that is detrimental to the organization provides immediate, direct benefits to the employee. 
Rationalization is common to all fraud. 
High expectations are often given as a motivating factor by those who have committed financial statement fraud. 
865
Internal auditors should have knowledge about factors (red flags) that have proven to be
associated with management fraud. Which of the following factors have generally not been
associated with management fraud?

Generous performance-based reward systems. 
A domineering management. 
Regular comparison of actual results with budgets. 
A management preoccupation with increased financial performance. 
3
Question Explanation
10
Generous reward systems provide incentives for management to distort performance. 
Pressure from superiors provides an incentive for management to distort performance. 
Regular comparison of actual results to budgets provides feedback and is a normal and necessary part of the control loop. Ineffective control is an indicator of possible fraud. 
A management preoccupation with increased financial performance provides an incentive for managers to distort performance. 
866
Which of the following is an indicator of possible financial reporting fraud being perpetrated by
management of a manufacturer?

A trend analysis discloses (I) sales increases of 50% and (2) cost of goods sold increases of 25%. 
A ratio analysis discloses cost of goods sold is 50% of sales.
A cross-sectional analysis of common size statements discloses (I) the firms percentage of cost of goods sold to sales is 40% and (2) the industry average percentage of cost of goods sold to sales is 50%. 
A cross-sectional analysis of common size statements discloses (I) the firms percentage of cost of goods sold to sales is 50% and (2) the industry average percentage of cost of goods sold to sales is 40%. 
1
Question Explanation
10
A 50% increase in sales supported by a 25% increase in cost of goods sold is either fortuitous or fraudulent. Increases in sales are usually accompanied by close to proportional increases in cost of goods sold. Examples of situations in which increases in sales can be disproportionately larger than increases in cost of goods sold include (I) operations within the realm of economies of scale (increasing returns to scale) and (2) the introduction of a highly accepted fashion item. Cases in which disproportionately large sales increases indicate fraudulent conduct include (I) collusion by the host firm's sales personnel and the buying firm's purchasing personnel and (2) collusion by members of two departments within the host firm, such as sales and transportation. Because the internal auditor would not know whether the disproportionately large increase in sales is legitimate, the auditor should view this condition as an indicator of possible fraud. 
A gross profit margin (GPM) of 50% is not an indicator of fraud. Manufacturers can expect a range of 40-_60% for this ratio. 
These data indicate an industry GPM of 50% and host firm GPM of 40%. The greater GPM realized by the host firm may result from any number of reasonable causes. These include (I) greater efficiencies exercised by the host firm, (2) greater sales effort (or a more highly accepted product), and (3) measurement errors. 
These data indicate an industry GPM of 40% and a host firm GPM of 50%. The lower GPM realized by the host firm may result from such causes as (I) host firm inefficiencies; (2) less acceptance of host firm product, or less sales effort; and (3) measurement errors. 
867
A company, which has many branch stores, has decided to benchmark one of its stores for the
purpose of analyzing the accuracy and reliability of branch store financial reporting. Which one
of the following is the most likely measure to be included in a financial benchmark?

High turnover of employees. 
High level of employee participation in setting budgets. 
High amount of bad debt write-offs. 
High number of suppliers. 
3
Question Explanation
10
Turnover of employees is not a financial benchmark. 
Employee participation in setting budgets is not a financial benchmark. 
The level of bad debts written off as uncollectible is a benchmark stated in financial terms. A level exceeding the benchmark could indicate fraud, which compromises the accuracy and reliability of financial reports. Bad debt write-offs may result from recording fictitious sales. 
The number of suppliers is not a financial benchmark. 
868
Which of the following would indicate that fraud may be taking place in a marketing
department?

There is no documentation for some fairly large expenditures made to a new vendor. 
A manager appears to be living a lifestyle that is in excess of what could be provided by a marketing manager's salary. 
The control environment can best be described as 'very loose.' However, this attitude is justified by management on the grounds that it is needed for creativity. 
All of the answers are correct. 
4
Question Explanation
10
Lack of documentation for expenditures is a potential fraud symptom. 
A manager's inappropriate lifestyle is a potential fraud symptom. 
Management's careless approach to control is a potential fraud symptom. 
An internal auditor's responsibilities for the detection of fraud include having sufficient knowledge to identify indicators that fraud may have been committed; being alert to opportunities, such as control weaknesses, that could allow fraud to occur; and evaluating the indicators of fraud sufficiently to determine whether any further action is needed or whether a fraud investigation should be recommended. Among the many such indicators are lack of timely and appropriate documentation (including information about authorization) for material transactions, suspicious lifestyle characteristics of employees in a position to commit fraud, and management's failure to display and communicate an appropriate attitude toward internal control. 
869
When an internal auditor followed up on a significant increase in maintenance supplies during
the past year, a purchasing agent explained to the internal auditor that the primary reason for the
increase was painting services and supplies. The internal auditor found a blanket purchase order
without the normal bid or quote documentation. The blanket purchase order had been signed by
the general manager and named the general manager&quot;s father as the sole contractor for painting
services on the organization&quot;s projects. The auditor also found a number of large invoices,
authorized for payment by the general manager, that showed the general manager&quot;s father as the
person who signed for the receipt of the material at the supplier. Which is not a symptom of
fraud as described in this situation?

Purchased material is not received by authorized organizational personnel. 
Routine controls are suspended for certain transactions. 
Purchased material is not delivered to a central location on the organization's premises. 
The use of blanket purchase orders. 
4
Question Explanation
10
The receipt of goods or services by non-organizational personnel is a symptom of fraud. 
Suspension of normal and appropriate procedures is a fraud indicator. 
The receipt of goods or services off-site is a symptom of fraud. 
Fraud is characterized by intentional deception and can be perpetrated for the benefit or to the detriment of the organization. However, the use of blanket purchase orders is a normal business practice. 
870
When an internal auditor followed up on a significant increase in maintenance supplies during
the past year, a purchasing agent explained to the internal auditor that the primary reason for the
increase was painting services and supplies. The internal auditor found a blanket purchase order
without the normal bid or quote documentation. The blanket purchase order had been signed by
the general manager and named the general manager&quot;s father as the sole contractor for painting
services on the organization&quot;s projects. The auditor also found a number of large invoices,
authorized for payment by the general manager, that showed the general manager&quot;s father as the
person who signed for the receipt of the material at the supplier. What is the common indicator
of fraud recognized by the internal auditor in this scenario?

Analytical procedures revealed an extraordinary increase in account balances. 
Paint and supplies are being purchased for a contractor. 
The purchasing agent is selecting the contractor on the basis of a blanket purchase order. 
Invoices are being authorized for payment by the general manager. 
1
Question Explanation
10
Analytical procedures are commonly performed by internal auditors to assess and evaluate information collected in an engagement. The assessment results from comparing information with expectations identified or developed by the internal auditor. Thus, an extraordinary increase in an account balance should be detected and investigated as the result of applying analytical methods. 
The provision of paint is not an issue. 
The purchasing agent is fulfilling this responsibility in accordance with the authority of a purchasing agent's position. 
The general manager may appropriately authorize payment. 
871
Bank management suspects that a bank loan officer frequently made loans to fictitious entities,
disbursed loan proceeds to personally established accounts, and then let the loans go into
default. Some pertinent facts about the loan officer include
*  A high standard of living, explained as the result of sound investments and not taking
vacations,
*  An expensive personal car obtained through business contacts,
*  Gasoline and repair bills submitted for a car assigned by the bank that are higher than the
organization&quot;s average (mileage logs were submitted on a quarterly basis), and
*  Marked annoyance with questions from internal auditors.
In this situation, typical indicators of the suspected fraud include all of the following except


Not taking an annual vacation. 
Becoming easily annoyed with auditor inquiries about questionable loans. 
Explaining a high standard of living as the result of investments. 
Submitting gasoline and repair bills that are higher than company average. 
4
Question Explanation
10
Not taking an annual vacation suggests that the loan officer fears discovery of wrongdoing in his/her absence. 
Becoming defensive may indicate a guilty conscience. 
A high standard of living may be inconsistent with the loan officers income. 
Submitting gasoline and repair bills that are higher than average is not correlated with making fraudulent loans. These factors are not controllable by the loan officer, so they cannot be indicators of unusual activity by him/her. 
872
Bank management suspects that a bank loan officer frequently made loans to fictitious entities,
disbursed loan proceeds to personally established accounts, and then let the loans go into
default. Some pertinent facts about the loan officer include
*  A high standard of living, explained as the result of sound investments and not taking
vacations,
*  An expensive personal car obtained through business contacts,
*  Gasoline and repair bills submitted for a car assigned by the bank that are higher than the
organization&quot;s average (mileage logs were submitted on a quarterly basis), and
*  Marked annoyance with questions from internal auditors.
The most appropriate trend analysis to indicate this potential fraud is


Loan default rates by loan officer. 
Accumulation of unpaid vacation days. 
Automobile operating expenses by loan officer. 
Total monetary volume of loans by loan officer. 
1
Question Explanation
10
Trend analysis would detect an unexplained increase in the default rate caused by bogus loans. 
Trend analysis would not detect annual vacation not taken. 
Although trend analysis could detect higher than average expenses for operation of the car, these expenses have no relationship to suspected fraudulent loans. 
The default rate is a better indicator than monetary volume. 
873
An unexpected decrease in which of the following ratios could indicate that fictitious inventory
has been recorded?

Average collection period. 
Total asset turnover. 
Price-earnings. 
Current. 
2
Question Explanation
10
The average collection period equals average receivables divided by average daily net sales. An increase in reported inventory does not affect it. 
The total asset turnover ratio equals sales divided by total assets. An increase in reported inventory will increase total assets and decrease the ratio. 
The price-earnings ratio (price per share  EPS) is not directly affected by fictitious inventory. 
The current ratio (current assets  current liabilities) is increased. 
874
Which of the following is an indicator of increased risk of fraud? The treasurer

Takes all vacations and has just accepted a promotion to vice president of finance. 
Takes no vacations and has just accepted a promotion to vice president of finance. 
Takes all vacations and has refused promotion to vice president of finance. 
Takes no vacations and has refused promotion to vice president of finance. 
4
Question Explanation
10
This combination of behaviors is not unusual. 
This combination of behaviors is not unusual. 
This combination of behaviors is not unusual. 
Sawyer, in Saer 's Internal Auditing (p. 1018), states that 'refusing to take vacations and shunning promotions' may indicate a fear of detection. The apparent lack of ambition is inconsistent with the treasurer's diligence. 
875
An engagement had been scheduled by the chief audit executive to address unusual inventory
shortages revealed in the annual physical inventory process at a large consumer goods
warehouse operation. A cycle count program had been installed in the storeroom at the
beginning of the year in place of the disruptive process of counting one entire product line at
the end of each month. The cycle count program appeared effective because only nine minor
adjustments had been made for the entire year on the several thousand different products
located in the storeroom. The storeroom supervisor explained that each of the 15 stockroom
personnel selected one item each day for cycle count based on how efficiently the item could be
counted. The opportunity for control-related problems including fraud has been increased in the
stockroom because

Items for cycle count are selected by stockroom personnel. 
A cycle count program has been installed in place of a less efficient program. 
Only nine minor adjustments have been recorded as a result of the cycle count process. 
Stockroom personnel record cycle count information. 
1
Question Explanation
10
The opportunity for fraud has been increased because stockroom personnel select the items for cycle count. Selection of items should be based on relative values or the relationship of an item to the total volume of transactions. Moreover, personnel who do not have custodial or record-keeping responsibilities should control the counts. 
An appropriate and effective cycle count process should improve control. 
The number of adjustments is not indicative of the level of control in this situation. 
A properly controlled cycle count process could involve stockroom personnel in performing counts. 
876
The internal audit activity has been assigned to perform an engagement involving a division.
Based on background review, the internal auditor knows the following about management
policies:
*  Organizational policy is to rapidly promote divisional managers who show significant
success. Thus, successful managers rarely stay at a division for more than 3 years.
*  A significant portion of division management&quot;s compensation comes in the form of
bonuses based on the division&quot;s profitability.
The division was identified by senior management as a turnaround opportunity. The division is
growing but is not scheduled for a full audit by the external auditors this year. The division has
been growing about 7% per year for the past 3 years and uses a standard cost system.
During the preliminary review, the internal auditor notes the following changes in financial data
compared with the prior year:
*  Sales have increased by l0%.
*  Cost of goods sold has increased by 2%.
*  Inventory has increased by 15%.
*  Divisional net profit has increased by 8%.
Which of the following items might alert the internal auditor to the possibility of fraud in the
division?

The division is not scheduled for an external audit this year. 
Sales have increased by l0%. 
A significant portion of management's compensation is directly tied to reported net profit of the division. 
All of the answers are correct. 
3
Question Explanation
10
Lack of an external audit this year has not been identified as a significant red flag. In addition, the division is reviewed by the IAA. 
Sales have normally been increasing by about 7% at this division. Thus, an increase of I O%, by itself, is not unexpected and does not raise a red flag. 
The internal auditor's responsibilities for detecting fraud include having sufficient knowledge of fraud to be able to identify indicators that fraud may have been committed. This knowledge includes the characteristics of fraud, the techniques used to commit fraud, and the types of frauds associated with the activities reviewed. For example, performance may be distorted because promotion and compensation (e.g., bonuses) are tied to profitability. 
Not all responses are red flags. 
877
An internal auditor is investigating the performance of a division with an unusually large
increase in sales, gross margin, and profit. Which of the following indicators is least likely to
indicate the possibility of sales-related fraud in the division?

A significant portion of divisional management's compensation is based on reported divisional profits. 
There is an unusually large amount of sales returns recorded after year'end. 
The internal auditor has taken a random sample of sales invoices but cannot locate a shipping document for a number of the sales transactions selected for November and December. 
One of the division's major competitors went out of business during the year. 
4
Question Explanation
10
Basing management compensation on reported profits creates an incentive for fraud. 
An unusually large amount of sales returns after year'end may indicate that invalid sales were recorded near the end of the year. 
The lack of shipping documents may indicate that invalid sales were recorded during November and December. 
A decrease in the number of competitors during the year is a potential explanation for the increase in sales and profits. 
878
Which of the following is most likely to be considered an indication of possible fraud?


The replacement of the management team after a hostile takeover. 
Rapid turnover of the organization's financial executives. 
Rapid expansion into new markets. 
A government audit of the organization's tax returns. 
2
Question Explanation
10
The replacement of the management team after a hostile takeover is not unusual. 
Even the most effective internal control can sometimes be circumvented - perhaps by collusion of two or more employees. Thus, an auditor must be sensitive to certain conditions that might indicate the existence of fraud, including high personnel turnover. In the case of financial executives, high turnover may suggest a pattern of inflation of profits to obtain bonuses or other benefits, to secure advantages in the marketplace, or to conceal incompetence, or rash actions. 
Rapid expansion into new markets is not unusual. 
A government audit of the organization's tax returns is not unusual. 
879
Which of the following would not be considered a condition that indicates a higher likelihood
of fraud?

Management has delegated the authority to make purchases under a certain monetary limit to subordinates. 
An individual has held the same cash-handling job for an extended period without any rotation of duties. 
An individual handling marketable securities is responsible for making the purchases, recording the purchases, and reporting any discrepancies and gains or losses to senior management.  
The assignment of responsibility and accountability in the accounts receivable department is not clear. 
1
Question Explanation
10
Delegating authority for purchases below a certain limit is a common and an acceptable control procedure aimed at limiting risk while promoting efficiency. It is not, by itself, considered a condition that indicates a higher likelihood of fraud. 
Lack of rotation of duties or cross-'training for sensitive jobs is an identified red flag. 
An inappropriate segregation of duties is an identified red flag. The same person should not authorize, execute, and account for transactions and have custody of the assets. 
Lack of recorded accountability for assets is an identified red flag. 
880
The most common motivation for management fraud is the existence of:
Vices, such as a gambling habit. 
Job dissatisfaction. 
Financial pressures on the organization. 
The challenge of committing the perfect crime. 
3
Question Explanation
10
Vices are an example of motivators of fraud perpetrated for the benefit of individuals and to the organization's detriment. 
Job dissatisfaction is an example of motivators of fraud perpetrated for the benefit of individuals and to the organization' s detriment. 
Management fraud benefits organizations rather than individuals, so the existence of financial pressures is the most common motivation. Management perpetrators attempt to make their financial statements appear more attractive because of the financial pressures of restrictive loan covenants, a poor cash position, loss of significant customers, etc. 
The challenge of committing the perfect crime is an example of motivators of fraud perpetrated for the benefit of individuals and to the organization's detriment. 
881
Which of the following fraudulent entries is most likely to be made to conceal the theft of an
asset?

Debit expenses and credit the asset. 
Debit the asset and credit another asset account. 
Debit revenue and credit the asset. 
Debit another asset account and credit the asset. 
1
Question Explanation
10
Most fraud perpetrators attempt to conceal their theft by charging it against an expense account. The result is that the recorded asset balance equals the actual amount on hand, and applying procedures to it will not detect the theft. 
Debiting the stolen asset account simply increases the discrepancy between the recorded amount and the amount on hand. 
An entry decreasing revenue is unusual and would attract attention. 
This entry would not permanently conceal the fraud. It would simply shift the irreconcilable balance to another asset account. 
882
A production manager for a moderate-sized manufacturer began ordering excessive raw
materials and had them delivered to a wholesale business that the manager was running on the
side. The manager falsified receiving documents and approved the invoices for payment. Which
of the following procedures is most likely to detect this fraud?

Take a sample of cash disbursements; compare purchase orders, receiving reports, invoices, and check copies. 
Take a sample of cash disbursements; confirm the amount purchased, purchase price, and date of shipment with the vendors. 
Observe the receiving dock and count materials received; compare the counts with receiving reports completed by receiving personnel. 
Perform analytical tests, comparing production, materials purchased, and raw materials inventory levels; investigate differences. 
2
Question Explanation
10
Given that documents have been falsified, supporting documents exist for each cash disbursement. 
The vendors will confirm all transactions. 
Given that the improper orders are shipped to another location, observing receiving dock counts will not detect the fraud. 
The application of analytical procedures is based on the premise that, in the absence of known conditions to the contrary, relationships among information may reasonably be expected to exist and continue. Examples of contrary conditions include unusual or nonrecurring transactions or events; accounting, organizational, operational, environmental, and technological changes; inefficiencies; ineffectiveness; errors; irregularities; or illegal acts. Hence, the analytical procedures should identify an unexplained increase in materials used. 
883
The manager of a production line has the authority to order and receive replacement parts for
all machinery that requires periodic maintenance. The internal auditor received an anonymous
tip that the manager ordered substantially more parts than were necessary from a family
member in the parts supply business. The unneeded parts were never delivered. Instead, the
manager processed receiving documents and charged the parts to machinery maintenance
accounts. The payments for the undelivered parts were sent to the supplier, and the money was
divided between the manager and the family member. Which of the following tests would best
assist the auditor in deciding whether to investigate this anonymous tip further?

Comparison of the current quarter's maintenance expense with prior-period activity. 
Physical inventory testing of replacement parts for existence and valuation. 
Analysis of repair parts charged to maintenance to review the reasonableness of the number of items replaced. 
Review of a test sample of parts invoices for proper authorization and receipt. 
3
Question Explanation
10
The current quarter's expense may not vary significantly from the prior period's unless the manager just started this fraud. The auditor has no information on how long this might have been occurring. 
Physical testing would not locate nonexistent parts that already have been charged to maintenance. 
Analytical procedures are evaluations of financial information made by a study of plausible relationships among both financial and nonfmancial data. They involve comparisons of recorded amounts, or ratios developed from recorded amounts, with expectations developed by the internal auditor. A basic premise underlying the application of analytical procedures is that plausible relationships among data may reasonably be expected to exist and continue in the absence of known conditions to the contrary. Thus, an analysis of repair parts charged to maintenance would quantify the excessive number of items and raise a red flag that abuse may be occurring. 
Lack of segregation of duties allowed the fraud to occur. The manager was authorized to process both the purchase and receipt, so the test would only verify the fraudulent paperwork. 
884
Jane Jackson had been the regional sales
manager for an organization for over 10 years.
During this time, she had become very close
friends with Frank Hansen, an internal audit
manager. In addition to being neighbors, Jane
and Frank had many of the same interests and
belonged to the same tennis club. They trusted
each other. Frank had helped Jane solve some
sales problems, and Jane had given Frank some
information that led to significant engagement
observations during the past three
engagements.
Below are selected analytical data from the
organization that have led staff internal
auditors to believe that there has been a
financial statement fraud. The perpetrator
appears to have falsified sales information
for the past 2 years. Frank is concerned
because he recently completed an
engagement in the area and accepted Jane&quot;s
explanation for differences in the analytical
data. Frank is now certain that Jane is
involved in the fraud.
                                             Current Last  -2    -3    4
                                              Year   Year Year  Year  Year


Percent increase in sales                      10     8     6    4    5
Inventory turnover                              5     4     5    3.5   4
Gross margin percentage                        54    49     42   39    40
Percent change in sales returns                 8     6     3    2.5   3
Which combination of the following analytical data provides the strongest indication of the
possibility of the fraud?


Percentage increase in sales and inventory turnover. 
Gross margin percentage and change in sales returns. 
Inventory turnover and change in sales returns. 
Percentage increase in sales and gross margin percentage. 
2
Question Explanation
10
The increase in percentage change in sales is not unreasonable, and, given the constant increase, one might expect increases in inventory that could keep turnover constant. 
Rapid increases in gross margin percentage are expected if sales are fictitious, that is, if sales are recorded without shipments and a consequent increase in cost of sales. The large increase in returns is also symptomatic of falsified sales. 
The turnover and return figures, when taken together, are not indications of sales overstatements. 
If the increase in sales was due to a market sales price increase, one might expect these results. 
885
Jane Jackson had been the regional sales
manager for an organization for over 10 years.
During this time, she had become very close
friends with Frank Hansen, an internal audit
manager. In addition to being neighbors, Jane
and Frank had many of the same interests and
belonged to the same tennis club. They trusted
each other. Frank had helped Jane solve some
sales problems, and Jane had given Frank some
information that led to significant engagement
observations during the past three
engagements.
Below are selected analytical data from the
organization that have led staff internal
auditors to believe that there has been a
financial statement fraud. The perpetrator
appears to have falsified sales information
for the past 2 years. Frank is concerned
because he recently completed an
engagement in the area and accepted Jane&quot;s
explanation for differences in the analytical
data. Frank is now certain that Jane is
involved in the fraud.
                                             Current Last  -2    -3    4
                                              Year   Year Year  Year  Year


Percent increase in sales                      10     8     6    4    5
Inventory turnover                              5     4     5    3.5   4
Gross margin percentage                        54    49     42   39    40
Percent change in sales returns                 8     6     3    2.5   3
The current dilemma in which Frank finds himself was least likely caused by


Not rotating engagements every year. 
Accepting an engagement in an area where he was a close personal friend of management. 
Failing to select the appropriate analytical procedures. 
Accepting the response of management without additional testing. 
3
Question Explanation
10
Failure to rotate engagements seems to have contributed to Frank's decision to accept management's explanation for the analytical findings. 
Frank's friendship with Jane impaired his objectivity. 
The information given suggests that Frank applied the proper analytical procedures but accepted management's explanation of the findings. 
Frank's acceptance of management's explanations apparently resulted in his failure to obtain sufficient information. 
886
The chief of an organization&quot;s security received an anonymous call accusing a marketing
manager of taking kickbacks from a media outlet. Thus, the marketing department is on the list
of possible engagement clients for the coming year. The internal audit activity is assigned
responsibility for investigating fraud by its charter. If obtaining access to outside media outlet
records and personnel is not possible, the best action an internal auditor could take to
investigate the allegation of marketing kickbacks is to

Search for unrecorded liabilities from media outlets. 
Obtain a list of approved media outlets. 
Develop a financial and behavioral profile of the suspect. 
Vouch any material past charge-offs of receivables. 
3
Question Explanation
10
If the employee is taking kickbacks, unrecorded liabilities are not being created. 
A list of approved media outlets would not provide any information about kickbacks. 
The best action is to develop a financial and behavioral profile of the marketing manager. A common indicator of fraud by an employee is an unexplained change in his/her financial status. A standard of living not commensurate with the employee's income may signify wrongdoing. The employee's behavior may also be suspicious (for example, constant association with, and entertainment by, a member of the media outlet's staff). The profile may help to corroborate illegal income and thereby provide a basis for tracing illegal payments to the employee. 
The receipt of kickbacks would have no effect on accounts receivable. 
887
The internal auditor reviewed documentation showing that a customer had recently returned
three expensive products to the regional service center for warranty replacement. The
documentation also showed that the warranty clerk had rejected the claim and sent it to the
customer&quot;s local distributor. The claim was rejected because the serial numbers listed in the
warranty claim were not found in the computer&quot;s sales history file. Subsequently, the distributor
supplied three different serial numbers, all of which were validated by the computer system,
and the clerk completed the warranty claim for replacements. What is the best course of action
for the internal auditor under the circumstances?

Determine if the original serial numbers provided by the customer can be traced to other records, such as production and inventory records. 
Notify the appropriate authorities within the organization that there are sufficient indicators that a fraud has been committed. 
Verify with the appropriate supervisor that the warranty clerk had followed relevant procedures in the processing and disposition of this claim. 
Summarize this item along with other valid transactions in the internal auditor's test of warranty transactions. 
1
Question Explanation
10
The best course of action for the internal auditor is to determine whether the original serial numbers provided by the customer can be traced to other records, such as production and inventory records. The internal auditor should determine whether the related equipment had actually been reported in a sales transaction. 
The internal auditor should pursue additional information before alerting authorities. 
Verifying that the warranty clerk followed procedures does not provide more information about the validity of the warranty claim. 
The internal auditor should obtain more information about the validity of the transaction. 
888
While reviewing a division&quot;s accounts, an internal auditor becomes concerned that the
division&quot;s management may have shipped poor quality merchandise to boost sales and
profitability and thereby increase the manager&quot; s bonus. For this reason, the internal auditor
suspects that returned goods are being shipped to other customers as new products without full
correction of their defects. Which of the following engagement procedures is the least effective
in determining whether such shipments took place?

Examine credit memos issued after year end for goods shipped before year end. 
Physically observe the shipping and receiving area for information of returned goods. 
Interview customer service representatives regarding unusual amounts of customer complaints. 
Require the division to take a complete physical inventory at year end, and observe the taking of the inventory. 
4
Question Explanation
10
Examining credit memos issued after year end for goods shipped before year end would show that customers are returning inferior goods. 
Physically observing the shipping and receiving area might  reveal goods returned that are not yet accounted for. 
Unusual amounts of customer complaints may suggest a condition not explained by normal spoilage rates. 
Taking a complete year'end inventory is an ineffective engagement procedure. The goods returned and reshipped without the correction of defects would not be on hand to be counted. 
889
Contributions to a nonprofit organization have been constant for the past 3 years. The audit
committee has become concerned that the president may have embarked on a scheme in which
some of the contributions from many sustaining members have been redirected to other
organizations. The audit committee suspects that the scheme may involve taking major
contributions and depositing them in alternative accounts or soliciting contributions to be made
in the name of another organization. Which of the following procedures should be most
effective in detecting the existence of such a fraud?

Use generalized audit software to take a sample of pledged receipts not yet collected and confirm the amounts due with the donors. 
Take a sample that includes all large donors for the past 3 years and a statistical sample of others and request a confirmation of total contributions made to the organization or to affiliated organizations. 
Take a discovery sample of cash receipts and confirm the amounts of the receipts with the donors. Investigate any differences. 
Use analytical review procedures to compare contributions generated with those of other comparable institutions over the same period of time. If the amount is significantly less, take a detailed sample of cash receipts and trace to the bank statements. 
2
Question Explanation
10
Sampling amounts listed as unpaid does not provide evidence about contributions previously paid or shifted to another organization. 
The engagement objective is to determine whether contributions have been wrongly directed to alternate accounts or solicited for other organizations. Consequently, an appropriate procedure is to send confirmation requests to donors. However, testing transactions recorded by the accounting system will not result in sufficient information about solicitation of contributions for other organizations. The internal auditor must therefore make inquiries of the sustaining members about such solicitations. 
Sampling cash receipts that have been recorded by the organization provides no evidence about unrecorded receipts or contributions diverted elsewhere. 
Analytical procedures are of limited use. Also, the follow-up procedure only provides evidence that recorded receipts were also deposited. 
890
During an engagement performed at a smaller division, the internal auditor notes the following
regarding the purchasing function:
There are three purchasing agents. Agent
1 is responsible for ordering all large
component parts, agent 2 for electric
motors, and agent 3 for smaller parts such
as fasteners.
There are separate accounts payable and
receiving departments.
In order to hold vendors more
responsible, all invoices are sent to the
purchasing agent placing the order. The
purchasing agent matches the vendor
invoice, receiving slip, and purchase
order. If all match, the purchasing agent
sends the documents forward to the
accounts payable department. Differences
are investigated by the purchasing agent.
o Only the accounts payable department
has the ability to authorize an item for
payment.
* All recorded receipts are immediately
recorded into a perpetual inventory
record by the department to which the
goods are transferred after receipt.
The internal auditor interviewed both
management and the purchasing agents.
Both groups were very satisfied with the
current system because it helps maintain
vendor accountability and provides sufficient
segregation of duties given that only the
accounts payable department can authorize
an item for payment.
Which of the following engagement procedures is most effective in determining whether
material fraud was taking place?

Take a random sample of cash disbursements and trace to approved purchase orders and receiving slips. 
Reconcile the perpetual inventory to the general ledger and investigate any differences. 
Take a random sample of purchase orders. Trace each purchase order to a receiving slip, vendor invoice, and approval by the accounts payable department. 
Perform an analytical review of inventory by product line to determine whether a particular product line has increased. Inquire of the purchasing agent as to the reason for the inventory increase. 
1
Question Explanation
10
Cash disbursements are authorized by accounts payable and are not made in the absence of approved documents. Purchasing agents have control of these documents. Hence, if they are falsified by the purchasing agents, merely verifying that documents exist to support payments is ineffective. 
A fraud could result in an overstatement of inventory in the ledger. However, the perpetual inventory reflects the actual goods received. 
Tracing purchase orders to receiving slips, invoices, and accounts payable approvals verifies only that purchase orders were processed. It would not detect fictitious purchase orders. 
Analytical review of inventory by product line provides limited evidence on the possibility of fraud but would not be as effective as reconciling inventory. 
891
During an engagement performed at a smaller division, the internal auditor notes the following
regarding the purchasing function:
There are three purchasing agents. Agent
1 is responsible for ordering all large
component parts, agent 2 for electric
motors, and agent 3 for smaller parts such
as fasteners.
There are separate accounts payable and
receiving departments.
In order to hold vendors more
responsible, all invoices are sent to the
purchasing agent placing the order. The
purchasing agent matches the vendor
invoice, receiving slip, and purchase
order. If all match, the purchasing agent
sends the documents forward to the
accounts payable department. Differences
are investigated by the purchasing agent.
o Only the accounts payable department
has the ability to authorize an item for
payment.
* All recorded receipts are immediately
recorded into a perpetual inventory
record by the department to which the
goods are transferred after receipt.
The internal auditor interviewed both
management and the purchasing agents.
Both groups were very satisfied with the
current system because it helps maintain
vendor accountability and provides sufficient
segregation of duties given that only the
accounts payable department can authorize
an item for payment.
The internal auditor is responsible for evaluating internal control to determine whether it allows
undetected fraud. Based on the information presented, the most likely undetected fraud, if any,
is that the

Purchasing agent is purchasing the majority of products from a favorite vendor because rotation among purchasing agents is not mandatory. 
Purchasing agent is sending fake purchase orders to a dummy vendor, inserting a receiving slip, and having payments made to the dummy vendor. 
Receiving department is diverting receipts to different locations and failing to create receiving reports. 
Production department is deflating the price of products purchased and thereby increasing the reported gross margin of sales.  
2
Question Explanation
10
Purchasing most goods from a particular vendor may be justified. 
Internal control is unlikely to detect the purchasing agent's fraud because this individual is in a position to perpetrate and conceal irregularities. Receiving documents and vendors' invoices should be sent to accounts payable, not to the purchasing agent. 
This possible fraud should be detected by the absence of receiving reports to support vendors' invoices. 
This response is unrelated to the purchasing environment. 
892
During an engagement performed at a smaller division, the internal auditor notes the following
regarding the purchasing function:
There are three purchasing agents. Agent
1 is responsible for ordering all large
component parts, agent 2 for electric
motors, and agent 3 for smaller parts such
as fasteners.
There are separate accounts payable and
receiving departments.
In order to hold vendors more
responsible, all invoices are sent to the
purchasing agent placing the order. The
purchasing agent matches the vendor
invoice, receiving slip, and purchase
order. If all match, the purchasing agent
sends the documents forward to the
accounts payable department. Differences
are investigated by the purchasing agent.
o Only the accounts payable department
has the ability to authorize an item for
payment.
* All recorded receipts are immediately
recorded into a perpetual inventory
record by the department to which the
goods are transferred after receipt.
The internal auditor interviewed both
management and the purchasing agents.
Both groups were very satisfied with the
current system because it helps maintain
vendor accountability and provides sufficient
segregation of duties given that only the
accounts payable department can authorize
an item for payment.
Which of the following controls, if properly implemented, is most likely to decrease the
likelihood of fraud?

Require periodic rotation of purchases among different vendors. 
Require rotation of duties among the three purchasing agents. 
Require that receiving reports be sent directly to accounts payable. 
Require that the updates to the perpetual inventory record be made by the receiving department. 
3
Question Explanation
10
Rotation of vendors might partially alleviate the problem, but the purchasing agent could develop new dummy vendors. 
Rotation of duties will not affect the type of fraud that could occur in this environment. The purchasing agent could develop another dummy vendor for the new product line. 
This change in procedures prevents the purchasing agent from falsifying receiving reports. An even better procedure is to have both the receiving reports and the vendors' invoices sent to accounts payable. 
This procedure will create an additional opportunity for fraud by the receiving department. 
893
During an engagement relating to purchasing, the internal auditor finds that the largest blanket
purchase order is for tires, which are expensed as vehicle maintenance items. The fleet manager
requisitions tires against the blanket order for the company&quot;s 400-vehicle service fleet based on
a visual inspection of the cars and trucks in the parking lot each week. Sometimes the fleet
manager picks up the tires but always signs the receiving report for payment. Vehicle service
data are entered into a maintenance database by the mechanic after the tires are installed. What
is the best course of action for the internal auditor in these circumstances?

Determine whether the number of tires purchased can be reconciled to maintenance records. 
Count the number of tires on hand and trace them to the related receiving reports. 
Select a judgmental sample of requisitions and verify that each one is signed by the fleet manager. 
Compare the number of tires purchased under the blanket purchase order with the number of tires purchased in the prior year for reasonableness. 
1
Question Explanation
10
The best course of action for the internal auditor is to determine whether the number of tires purchased can be reconciled to maintenance records. That the fleet manager both requisitions and receives the tires provides an opportunity for fraud. The internal auditor should verify whether fraud has occurred. A separate receiving function would diminish the possibility of fraud by providing an independent count of items received. 
Tracing the tires on hand to the receiving reports would not reveal a fraud. The manager signs the receiving report. 
Testing for signed requisitions would not necessarily reveal whether fraud is present. 
A fraud could have occurred during the prior year also. 
894
During a post-completion engagement related to a warehouse expansion, the internal auditor
noted several invoices for redecorating services from a local merchant that were account-coded
and signed for payment only by the cost engineer. The internal auditor should

Compare the cost and description of the services with the account code used in the construction project and with related estimates in the construction-project budget. 
Consult with the cost engineer for assurance that these purchases were authorized for this construction project. 
Obtain a facsimile of the cost engineer's signature from the accounts payable group and compare it with the signature on the invoices. 
Recommend reclassifying the expenditure to the appropriate account code for redecorating services. 
1
Question Explanation
10
The internal auditor needs to determine the validity of the transaction because the engineer is performing incompatible tasks. Comparing the cost and description of the services with the account code and the budget will verify the transaction. However, normal controls over disbursements need to be established. 
The cost engineer's assurance would not confirm the authorization of these expenditures. 
The primary focus is the validity of the transaction within this construction project. 
There is no basis for reclassifying the transaction within this context. 
895
The internal auditor suspects a disbursements fraud in which an unknown employee(s) is
submitting and approving invoices for payment. Before discussing the potential fraud with
management, the internal auditor decides to gather additional information. Which of the
following procedures is most helpful in providing the additional information?

Use software to develop a list of vendors with post office box numbers or other unusual features. Select a sample of those items and trace to supporting documents such as receiving reports. 
Select a sample of payments made during the year and investigate each one for approval.
Select a sample of receiving reports representative of the period under investigation and trace to approved payment. Note any items not properly proces 
Take a sample of invoices received during the past month, examine to determine whether properly authorized for payment, and trace to underlying documents. 
1
Question Explanation
10
A disbursements fraud may be accomplished through the use of fictitious vendors. Investigating vendors with suspicious characteristics appropriately focuses on payees as sources of additional information. 
Answer (B) is incorrect. The individual perpetrating the fraud may have been in a position to obtain approvals. 
The problem is more likely to be with payments for which no valid support exists. 
Sampling invoices for the past month is not as effective as investigating suspicious vendors. It focuses only on a short period of time, and it does not emphasize the items most likely to be fraudulent. 
896
During an engagement, the internal auditor found a scheme in which the warehouse director
and the purchasing agent for a retail organization diverted a significant amount of goods to their
own warehouse, then sold the goods to third parties. The fraud was not noted earlier because
the warehouse director forwarded receiving reports (after updating the perpetual inventory
records) to the accounts payable department for processing. Which of the following procedures
most likely led to the discovery of the missing materials and the fraud?

Take a random sample of receiving reports and trace to the recording in the perpetual inventory record. Note differences and investigate by type of product. 
Take a random sample of purchase orders and trace them to receiving documents and to the records in the accounts payable department. 
Take an annual physical inventory, reconciling amounts with the perpetual inventory, noting the pattern of differences and investigating. 
Take a random sample of sales invoices and trace to the perpetual records to see if inventory was on hand. Investigate any differences. 
3
Question Explanation
10
A Sampling receiving reports would not have detected the fraud. The warehouse director updates the perpetual inventory records before forwarding the false receiving reports to accounts payable. 
Taking a sample of purchase orders would not have detected the irregularities. All the goods were ordered, and the perpetrators colluded to falsify receiving reports even when the goods were diverted to another location. 
Taking an annual physical inventory should lead to the identification of systematic shrinkages in the inventory. The pattern of the shrinkages should implicate the warehouse director. At that time, a fraud investigation should be undertaken. 
The warehouse director falsified the inventory records. 
897
The internal auditor finds a situation in which one person has the ability to collect receivables,
make deposits, issue credit memos, and record receipt of payments. The internal auditor
suspects the individual may be stealing from cash receipts. Which of the following engagement
procedures is most effective in discovering fraud in this scenario?

Send positive confirmations to a random selection of customers. 
Send negative confirmations to all outstanding accounts receivable customers. 
Perform a detailed review of debits to customer discounts, sales returns, or other debit accounts, excluding cash posted to the cash receipts journal. 
Take a sample of bank deposits and trace the detail in each bank deposit back to the entry in           the cash receipts journal. 
3
Question Explanation
10
An employee who performs asset custody, authorization, and recording functions can conceal the theft by debiting customer discounts or sales returns.
Seeking information from customers and tracing bank balances will not detect the fraud because neither customer statements nor bank records will contain evidence of fraud. 
The most effective procedure is to perform a detailed review of debits to customer discounts, sales returns, etc. These accounts could be used to conceal a theft of cash payments without alerting customers. Seeking confirmation from customers and tracing bank balances will not detect the fraud because neither customer statements nor bank records will contain evidence of fraud. 
Bank deposits will agree with journal entries. The stolen amounts are never recorded. 
898
Management has requested that the internal auditor investigate the possibility that a purchasing
agent is receiving kickbacks. Which of the following procedures is least effective in addressing
management&quot;s concern?

Confirm all contract terms with vendors. 
Analyze, by purchasing agent, all increases in cost of procured goods from specific vendors. 
Take a statistical sample of goods purchased and compare purchase prices for goods with those of other sources of similar goods, such as other organizations or catalogs. 
Observe any changes in the lifestyles or individual consumption habits of the purchasing agents involved. 
1
Question Explanation
10
Confirming contract terms is the least useful procedure because the contract terms are already known. The confirmation would have to be expanded to inquire as to whether the purchasing agent has pressured vendors to make kickbacks. That approach is useful only if the kickbacks were initiated by the purchasing agent rather than the vendor. 
Analyzing increases in the cost of procured goods from specific vendors provides insight as to what products and which purchasing agent may be involved. 
Sampling goods purchased and comparing prices against other sources of similar goods provides information on excess purchase prices. 
Unexplained changes in personal habits of purchasing agents may reveal the purchasing agent involved in receiving the kickbacks. 
899
An investment portfolio manager has the authority to use financial derivatives to hedge
transactions but is not supposed to take speculative positions. However, the manager launches a
scheme that includes (I) taking a position larger than required by the hedge, (2) putting the
speculative gains in a suspense account, and (3) transferring the funds to a nonexistent broker
and from there to a personal account. Which of the following engagement procedures is least
effective in detecting this fraud?

Examine individual trades to determine whether the trades violate the authorization limit for the manager. 
Sample individual trades and determine the exact matching of a hedge. Schedule and investigate all differences. 
Sample all debits to the suspense account and examine their disposition. 
Sample fund transfers to brokers and determine if the brokers are on the organization's authorized list for transactions. 
1
Question Explanation
10
Examining individual trades to determine whether they violate the authorization limit would not detect the fraud. The speculative nature of the transaction, not its amount, is the violation of policy. 
Sampling individual trades may detect an unauthorized speculation. 
All debits to the suspense account should be sampled given the potential for using such an account for irregularities. 
Sampling fund transfers to brokers and determining whether the brokers are on the authorized list for transactions may detect a fictitious party. 
900
When testing the year-end balance for trade accounts payable, the use of a software package to
identify unauthorized vendors in a vendor database is most valuable in developing tests to
determine

Existence of valid recorded liabilities. 
Accuracy of the receiving cutoff used. 
Ownership of the recorded payables. 
Valuation of recorded transactions. 
1
Question Explanation
10
Identifying unauthorized vendors helps to test the existence assertion for recorded liabilities. Purchases should be made only from enterprises on the approved' vendor list. Irregularities in vendor information indicate the potential for recording invalid liabilities, such as those for excessive amounts, to fictitious suppliers, or for items not meeting specifications. 
Irregularities in vendor information have little bearing on the cut-off used. 
Recorded payables are liabilities, not assets. 
Valuation is not directly determined by review of vendor information irregularities. 
901
While performing analytical procedures related to an engagement involving a social services
agency of a government entity, the internal auditor noted an unusually large increase in
payments to individual recipients who are under the direction of a particular social worker in
the agency. Which of the following engagement procedures is the best procedure to investigate
this observation?

Use generalized audit software to sort payments to recipients by social worker. Then sort the payments by common addresses and names. 
Implement an integrated test facility and monitor transactions throughout the year to identify unusual items. 
Implement the snapshot approach and tag transactions that are related to the social worker identified with the unusually large increases. 
Use generalized audit software to take a random sample of recipients and investigate by sending confirmations to them to determine whether they had received proper payments. 
1
Question Explanation
10
Generalized audit software (GAS) is appropriate for such routine computer tasks as extracting, sorting, comparing, and summarizing data. Sorting payments by social worker and by addresses and names is the best procedure because it efficiently determines whether an obvious fraudulent pattern exists in the payments under the control of the social worker. 
An integrated test facility (ITF) is designed to test the correctness of processing, not whether only valid recipients are receiving payments. 
The snapshot technique would not provide much information about fraudulent items currently contained in the file. Like the ITF, the snapshot technique concentrates on the processing of data, not the validity of new recipients. 
Sending confirmations to the recipients listed on the file should not be the first approach used. If the recipients are indeed fraudulent, the social worker will receive the confirmation (all sent to a common address) and will be able to respond positively. 
902
Two merging retail enterprises agree to share data on store operations. The data reveal that
three stores in Organization A are characterized by:
*  Significantly lower gross margins,
*  Higher-than&quot;average sales volume, and
*  Higher levels of employee bonuses.
Assume the internal auditor for the merged enterprise concludes that inventory fraud is the most
reasonable explanation of the observed data. Which of the following engagement procedures
will provide the most persuasive information that fraud is taking place?

Use an integrated test facility (ITF) to compare individual sales transactions with test transactions submitted through the ITF. Investigate all differences. 
Interview the three individual store managers to determine if their explanations about the observed differences are the same. Compare their explanations with those of the section manager. 
Schedule a surprise physical inventory. Investigate areas of inventory shrinkage. 
Take a sample of individual store prices and compare them with the sales entered on the cash register for the same items. 
3
Question Explanation
10
An integrated test facility is used to test the correctness of computer processing. 
Interviews are not an effective or reliable way to gather information. A wrongdoer has an incentive to lie. 
Taking a surprise physical inventory is a highly effective way to uncover inventory fraud. This procedure prevents the suspected wrongdoers from concealing irregularities. Variances between amounts on hand and recorded quantities should be investigated. 
Comparing prices with cash register entries does not address the inventory shrinkage problem. 
903
An accounting clerk developed a scheme to enter fraudulent invoices into the computer system
for nonexistent vendors. All the payments were sent to the same address. The internal auditor
suspects a possible fraud. The internal auditor should test all of the vendor information rather
than a sample of the vendor transactions because

Although nonsampling error is reduced, sampling error is larger when computers are used to draw the sample.  
The engagement procedures used to compare vendor information require the reading of all records. 
The Standards prohibit the use of sampling if fraud is expected. 
The only effective approach requires performing procedures 'through the computer.' 
2
Question Explanation
10
Sampling risk is not increased by using a computer. Indeed, a computer may eliminate sampling risk by permitting examination of all items in a population. 
Because possible fraud exists, sampling is inappropriate. The engagement procedure to be applied requires a matching of all records to identify vendor addresses that are the same. Generalized audit software would allow this procedure to be applied most efficiently. 
The Standards do not prohibit the use of sampling. 
Examining vendor information manually is effective but inefficient. 
904
An internal auditor becomes concerned that fraud, in the form of payments to bogus entities,
may exist. Buyers, who are responsible for all purchases for specific product lines, are able to
approve expenditures up to US $50,000 without any other approval. Which of the following
procedures would be most effective in addressing the internal auditor&quot;s concerns?

Use generalized audit software to list all purchases over US $50,000 to determine whether the expenditures were properly approved. 
Develop a 'snapshot' technique to trace all transactions by suspected buyers. 
Use generalized audit software to take a random sample of all expenditures under US $50,000 to determine whether the expenditures were properly approved. 
Use generalized audit software to list all major vendors by product line; select a sample of paid invoices to new vendors and examine information indicating that services or goods were received. 
4
Question Explanation
10
Purchases above US $50,000 must be approved by someone other than the buyer. 
The snapshot technique captures data at a specific point in the processing stream. Thus, it does not provide information on the validity of the transaction. 
The issue is not whether the buyer approved a transaction but whether the approval was valid. 
The primary use of GAS is to select and summarize a client' s records for additional testing. These packages permit the internal auditor to audit through the computer; to extract, compare, analyze, and summarize data; and to generate output for use in the engagement. They allow the internal auditor to exploit the computer to examine many more records than otherwise possible with far greater speed and accuracy. Hence, GAS is an effective and efficient means of extracting sample data. 
905
Bank management suspects that a bank loan officer frequently made loans to fictitious entities,
disbursed loan proceeds to personally established accounts, and then let the loans go into
default. Some pertinent facts about the loan officer include
*  A high standard of living, explained as the result of sound investments and not taking
vacations,
*  An expensive personal car obtained through business contacts,
*  Gasoline and repair bills submitted for a car assigned by the bank that are higher than the
organization&quot;s average (mileage logs were submitted on a quarterly basis), and
*  Marked annoyance with questions from internal auditors.
The extent of loans made to fictitious borrowers by the loan officer could best be determined
by

Reviewing a representative sample of the loan officer' s transactions for compliance with bank policies and procedures. 
Reviewing a representative sample of loan files for properly completed documents, such as loan agreements, credit approvals, and approval of secured collateral. 
Comparing current loan approval balances with those of prior years. 
Requesting positive confirmations for all outstanding loans made by the loan officer. 
2
Question Explanation
10
A review for compliance would not show which loans were made to fictitious borrowers. 
Reviewing a representative sample of loan files for properly completed documents, such as loan agreements, credit approvals, and approval of secured collateral, could uncover fictitious borrowers. Secured collateral would be difficult to obtain. Hence, approval of secured collateral is probably missing from the fraudulent loan documents. 
The loan officer's level of activity might be higher or lower without regard to fraudulent activity. 
Positive confirmations could easily be made by the perpetrator. 
906
Bank management suspects that a bank loan officer frequently made loans to fictitious entities,
disbursed loan proceeds to personally established accounts, and then let the loans go into
default. Some pertinent facts about the loan officer include
*  A high standard of living, explained as the result of sound investments and not taking
vacations,
*  An expensive personal car obtained through business contacts,
*  Gasoline and repair bills submitted for a car assigned by the bank that are higher than the
organization&quot;s average (mileage logs were submitted on a quarterly basis), and
*  Marked annoyance with questions from internal auditors.
The extent of loans made to fictitious borrowers by the loan officer is least likely to be
discovered by

Analyses of the number of loans made by each loan officer. 
Analysis of total monetary volume of loans by loan officer. 
External audits of loan files. 
Reconciliation of total loans outstanding to the general ledger balance. 
4
Question Explanation
10
An excessive number or amount of loans may suggest suspicious activity. 
An excessive number or amount of loans may suggest suspicious activity. 
An external audit should detect the fraud. 
Reconciling outstanding loans to the general ledger will not detect fraud because the fraudulent loans will be properly accounted for. The loan officer received the loans by manipulating actual loan documents, not by merely taking the money. 
907
Purchases from two new vendors increased dramatically after a new buyer was hired. The buyer
was obtaining kickbacks from the two vendors based on sales volume. A possible means of
detection is

Periodically surveying vendors regarding potential buyer conflict of interest or ethics violations. 
The receipt of an invoice to put new vendors on the master file. 
The use of purchase orders for all purchases. 
The use of change analysis and trend analysis of buyer or vendor activity. 
4
Question Explanation
10
If the vendor is in collusion with the buyer, either no response or an incorrect response will be elicited. 
The receipt of an invoice to put new vendors on the master file will not detect an improper choice of vendors. 
The use of purchase orders for all purchases will not detect an improper choice of vendors. 
Analytical procedures may detect the conflict of interest. The abrupt increase in business awarded to the vendors will be indicated by change and trend analysis. 
908
One remote unit&quot;s petty cash custodian, because of the small staff, also had responsibility for
the imprest fund checking account reconciliation. The cashier concealed a diversion of funds by
altering the beginning balance on the monthly reconciliations sent to the group office. A
possible engagement procedure to detect this fraud is to

Compare monthly balances and use change and trend analysis. 
Require additional monitoring by headquarters whenever improper segregation of duties exists at remote units. 
Determine whether any employees have high personal debt. 
Determine whether any employees are leading expensive lifestyles. 
1
Question Explanation
10
Comparing the beginning balance one month with the ending balance of the prior month is a means of uncovering this fraud. Applying analytical procedures is also a way to detect the diversion of funds. It will isolate unexpected and unexplained fluctuations. 
Requiring additional monitoring whenever improper segregation of duties exists is not always possible or desirable and is not necessarily cost justified. 
Rumors about personal finances may be unfounded, and it may be illegal to make inquiries without the employee's knowledge. 
Rumors about personal finances may be unfounded, and it may be illegal to make inquiries without the employee's knowledge. 
909
A common fraud against banks is drawing checks on accounts with insufficient funds and
depositing the checks to other accounts. An engagement procedure that is probably the most
helpful in detecting this form of fraud is to

Investigate all accounts whose average daily balances are low compared with the total deposit level. 
Confirm accounts requiring a deposit to prevent the account from becoming overdrawn based on the account's opening balance. 
Institute an automated procedure to identify accounts for further investigation that have attributes associated with kiting. 
Inspect account activity for accounts with deposits on more than 8 to 10 days per month. 
3
Question Explanation
10
A low balance signifies that the depositor is placing its resources in higher-yield investments. 
A low balance signifies that the depositor is placing its resources in higher-yield investments. 
Kiting is the recording of a deposit from an interbank transfer in the current period, while failing to record the related disbursement until the next period. It is an irregularity that exploits the lag (float period) between the deposit of a check in one account and the time it clears the bank on which it is drawn. To detect kiting, the internal auditor should examine a schedule of bank transfers for a period covering a few days before and after the balance sheet date. Because the check used to make the bank transfer is not recorded in the current period, the check is not listed as outstanding on the reconciliation of the bank account on which it was drawn. The internal auditor detects kiting by comparing paid checks, returned in the next period and dated prior to year-end, with the checks listed as outstanding on the related bank reconciliation. In other words, the internal auditor searches for checks that should have been listed as outstanding but were not. 
Daily deposits are routine for many entities. 
910
An internal auditor is more likely to detect duplicate vendor payments in a high exposure
environment with certain internal control weaknesses by using which of the following
procedures?

Trend analysis. 
Monetary validity. 
Proportional analysis. 
Substantive testing. 
4
Question Explanation
10
Trend analysis is a specific analytical procedure. Trend analysis involves a review of operating data for prior years to determine reasonableness of income or expense. Proportional analysis considers the relation of one item of income or expense to others. 
Monetary validity is a nonsense term in this context. 
Proportional analysis is a specific analytical procedure. Trend analysis involves a review of operating data for prior years to determine reasonableness of income or expense. Proportional analysis considers the relation of one item of income or expense to others. 
An internal auditor who knows that internal control is ineffective and that exposure to the risk of fraud is great should change the nature, timing, and extent of substantive testing. Substantive testing consists of analytical procedures and tests of details and balances. 
911
A subsidiary president terminated a controller and hired a replacement without the required
organizational approvals. Sales, cash flow, and profit statistics were then manipulated by the
new controller and president via accelerated depreciation and sale of capital assets to obtain
larger performance bonuses for the controller and the subsidiary president. An approach that
might detect this fraudulent activity is

Analysis of overall management control for segregation of duties. 
Required exit interviews for all terminated employees. 
Periodic changes of outside public accountants. 
Regular analytical review of operating divisions. 
4
Question Explanation
10
Analysis of segregation of duties will not detect fraudulent activity; it merely indicates where opportunity exists. 
Exit interviews are not effective at the officer level. Most individuals will not want to compromise severance arrangements. 
Changing outside auditors will not necessarily result in more effective audits. 
Analytical procedures permit evaluations of financial information made by a study and comparison of the relationships among data. The premise is that certain relationships prevail in the absence of known conditions to the contrary. Analytical procedures identify such things as the existence of unusual transactions and events and amounts, ratios, and trends that might indicate matters that have financial statement ramifications. Deviations from expectations should be investigated and the reasons therefore determined. 
912
An employee of an insurer processed a fraudulent policy loan application for an amount less
than the established level requiring supervisory review. The employee then obtained the check
and cashed it by forging the endorsement. To prevent the loan&quot;s appearance on a subsequent
policyholder statement, the loan amount was transferred to a &quot;suspense&quot; account. Which of the
following should expose this situation at the earliest date?

A computer report identifying unusual entries to the suspense account. 
The use of prenumbered checks that are periodically accounted for. 
An annual engagement performed by the internal audit activity. 
Regular reconciliation of the 'suspense' account performed by an independent employee. 
1
Question Explanation
10
Because the employee transferred the loan amount to a 'suspense' account, a computer system programmed to report unusual entries should expose the fraudulent loan at the earliest date. 
The use of prenumbered documents detects missing transactions but does not determine the validity of the transactions accounted for. 
An annual engagement performed by the IAA is not likely to discover a small loan. 
The regular reconciliation may detect the fraudulent loan, but the computer report identifying unusual entries will expose the loan at the earliest date. 
913
An internal auditor is investigating the performance of a division with an unusually large
increase in sales, gross margin, and profit. If the internal auditor continued to suspect fraudulent
recording of transactions to increase reported profits, which of the following procedures would
be least effective?

Take a physical inventory. 
Develop a schedule of inventory by month and investigate unusual fluctuations by reference to the perpetual inventory records. 
Prepare a schedule of sales fluctuations and gross margin by month. Investigate unusually high months of sales and gross margin by examining support for sales. 
Perform year-end sales and purchase cut-off tests. 
2
Question Explanation
10
A physical inventory is an effective procedure. One way to overstate the gross margin is to overstate ending inventory. 
Investigating fluctuations in the inventory records is the least effective procedure because the records may have been falsified. Conducting a year-end physical inventory provides more reliable information. 
Analysis of sales and gross margin fluctuations is a useful procedure. Sales that vary excessively from expectations may indicate that fictitious sales have been recorded. 
Cut-off tests are effective in identifying transactions recorded in the wrong period. 
914
An internal auditor is investigating the performance of a division with an unusually large
increase in sales, gross margin, and profit. Assume that the analysis shows unusually high sales
and gross margin during the months of November and December and the internal auditor
wishes to investigate further. Which of the following engagement procedures will be most
effective in analyzing whether fraudulent sales may have been recorded?

Take a sample of shipping documents and compare them with the related sales invoices, noting that all items were properly billed. 
Confirm accounts receivable with large customers. 
Perform an analytical review comparing sales and gross margin with the previous 10 months and the first month of the following year. 
Use regression analysis techniques for the first 10 months to estimate the sales and cost of goods sold for the last 2 months. 
2
Question Explanation
10
Sampling shipping documents only provides information that shipments were billed. The issue is whether sales have been recorded for shipments not made. 
If fictitious sales are recorded, the most likely corresponding debit is to accounts receivable. Confirmation provides independent information about the validity of receivables. Thus, confirming receivables is an effective procedure assuming that the customers are willing to respond. The best alternative is to vouch recorded sales to the underlying documents. 
Analytical procedures, such as regression analysis, have already been performed and indicate the possibility of a misstatement. The internal auditor now needs to perform detailed tests to determine the existence of misstatements. 
Analytical procedures, such as regression analysis, have already been performed and indicate the possibility of a misstatement. The internal auditor now needs to perform detailed tests to determine the existence of misstatements. 
915
An internal auditor is performing an operational engagement at a division and observes that an
unusually large quantity of goods is on hand in the shipping and materials rework areas. The
items are labeled as re-ship items. Upon inquiry the internal auditor is told that these are goods
that have been returned by customers and have either been repaired and shipped back to the
original customer or repaired and shipped out as new products because they are fully warranted.
The internal auditor has not yet performed any detailed engagement work. Based on the
information given, the most appropriate action for the internal auditor to take is to

Report the items to divisional management and ask for management's explanation before determining whether to include the observations in an engagement communication. 
Take a sample of the items on hand and compare the sample items with the underlying documents, such as receiving reports and sales orders, to determine how the goods were handled. 
Report the observations but do not perform any additional work without the approval of the chief audit executive because such work is clearly a scope expansion. 
Take an inventory of the goods on hand so the monetary amount can be included in the engagement communications along with the explanation of the problem. 
2
Question Explanation
10
The internal auditor should gather information to corroborate the testimonial information before inquiring of divisional management. 
Sampling items on hand and reviewing the related documents assist the internal auditor in understanding the details of the transactions. This procedure should be performed before taking any further action. 
The observations should not be included in an engagement communication until the internal auditor has corroborating information and an understanding of the nature of the potential problem. 
The observations should not be included in an engagement communication until the internal auditor has corroborating information and an understanding of the nature of the potential problem. 
916
A chief audit executive (CAE) suspects that several employees have used desktop computers
for personal gain. In conducting an investigation, the primary reason that the CAE chose to
engage a forensic information systems auditor rather than using the organization&quot;s information
systems auditor is that a forensic information systems auditor would possess

Knowledge of the computing system that would enable a more comprehensive assessment of the computer use and abuse. 
Knowledge of what constitutes evidence acceptable in a court of law. 
Superior analytical skills that would facilitate the identification of computer abuse. 
Superior documentation and organization skills that would facilitate in the presentation of findings to senior management and the board. 
2
Question Explanation
10
The organization's information systems auditor would probably have more knowledge of the organization's computing systems than a forensic auditor. 
The distinguishing characteristic of forensic auditing is the knowledge needed to testify as an expert witness in a court of law. Although a forensic auditor may possess the other attributes listed, the organization's information systems auditor may also possess these skills or knowledge elements. 
A forensic auditor would not necessarily have analytical skills that are superior to those of the organization's auditor. 
A forensic auditor would not necessarily have organizational skills that are superior to those of the organization's auditor. 
917
What computer-assisted audit technique would an auditor use to identify a fictitious or
terminated employee?

Parallel simulation of payroll calculations. 
Exception testing for payroll deductions. 
Recalculations of net pay. 
Tagging and tracing of payroll tax-rate changes. 
2
Question Explanation
10
In a parallel simulation, data that were processed by the engagement client's system are reprocessed through the auditor's program to determine whether the output obtained matches the output generated by the client's system. This technique might identify problems with the client' s processing but would not identify a fictitious or terminated employee. 
Exception testing for payroll deductions is a type of computer' assisted audit technique (CAAT) that can identify employees who have no deductions. This is important because fictitious or terminated employees will generally not have any deductions. 
A CAAT program can recalculate such amounts as gross pay, net pay, taxes and other deductions, and accumulated or used leave times. These recalculations can help determine whether the payroll program is operating correctly or employee files have been altered, but it would not identify a fictitious or terminated employee. 
In this type of CAAT program, certain actual transactions are _tagged.' As they proceed through the system, a data file is created that traces the processing through the system and permits subsequent review of that processing. However, this procedure would not identify a fictitious or terminated employee. 
918
An auditor for a major retail company suspects that inventory fraud is occurring at three stores
that have high cost of goods sold. Which of the following audit activities would provide the
most persuasive evidence that fraud is occurring?

Use an integrated test facility (ITF) to compare individual sales transactions with test transactions submitted through the ITF. Investigate all differences. 
Interview the three individual store managers to determine if their explanations about the observed differences are the same, and then compare their explanations to that of the section manager. 
Schedule a surprise inventory audit to include a physical inventory. Investigate areas of inventory shrinkage. 
Select a sample of individual store prices and compare them with the sales entered on the cash register for the same items. 
3
Question Explanation
10
The ITF only provides evidence of the correctness of computer processing. This evidence is not relevant to discovery of many forms of inventory fraud, such as physical theft. 
Interviews provide a weak form of evidence when the auditor has no substantive documentary evidence. 
Observation of the taking of inventory, including test counts by the auditors, is the traditional method for verifying the fairness of inventory. Determining the actual balance is a starting point for evaluating whether inventory fraud has occurred. 
The problem is with inventory shrinkage, not with whether items are appropriately keyed or scanned at the cash register. 
919
During a review of contracts, a chief audit executive (CAE) suspects that a supplier was given
an unfair advantage in bidding on a contract. After learning that the chief executive officer
(CEO) of the company is a member of the supplier&quot;s board of directors, how should the CAE
proceed?

Submit a draft report to senior management, excluding the CEO. 
Contact the organization's external auditors for assistance. 
Obtain supporting documentation and present the finding to the chair of the audit committee. 
Immediately notify the board of directors. 
3
Question Explanation
10
The CEO is a member of senior management. Other members of senior management may receive a final report that has been reviewed and approved by legal counsel. 
External auditors should not be contacted. External auditors may be given a final report that has been reviewed and approved by legal counsel. 
The CAE must communicate and interact directly with the board (e.g., audit committee) (Standard I II I). Moreover, internal auditors must consider the probability of fraud when developing engagement objectives (Standard 201 O.A2). Also, the CAE must communicate final results to parties who can ensure that they receive due consideration (Standard 2440.A I ). The results must be supported by documented, relevant information (Standard 2330). 
The CAE should obtain supporting documentation before informing the audit committee or the board. 
920
If an internal auditor is interviewing three individuals, one of whom is suspected of committing
a fraud, which of the following is the least effective approach?

Ask each individual to prepare a written statement explaining the individual's actions. 
Take the role of one seeking the truth. 
Listen carefully to what each interviewee has to say. 
Attempt to get the suspected individual to confess. 
4
Question Explanation
10
A written statement by the interviewee provides admissions of fact that may be compared with other evidence for possible inconsistencies or that may provide starting points for further investigation. 
The interviewer should be objective, unemotional, and nonthreatening. 
Effective listening is a vital communication skill in many situations. 
Because of the legal hazards and their lack of expertise in criminal interrogation, internal auditors should often defer to security specialists. Internal auditors should apply many of the interviewing methods used in other circumstances. The approach should be unemotional and nonthreatening, and the interviewee should be presumed innocent. The interview should be performed by two persons, with one serving as a witness. Interviewers should not interrupt the interviewee (except for clarification) and should attempt to gain his/her confidence. Interviewers must be certain of their facts before proceeding with an interview of a suspect. Thus, an attempt to obtain a confession is inconsistent with the foregoing methods. It is threatening, contrary to the presumption of innocence, and not likely to gain the confidence of the interviewee. 
921
The auditor of a construction company that builds foundations for bridges and large buildings
performed a review of the expense accounts for equipment (augers) used to drill holes in rocks
to set the foundation for the buildings. During the review, the auditor noted that the expenses
related to some of the auger accounts had increased dramatically during the year. The auditor
inquired of the construction manager who offered the explanation that the augers last two to
three years and are expensed when purchased. Thus, the auditor should see a decrease in the
expense accounts for these augers in the next year but would expect an increase in the expenses
of other augers. The auditor also found out that the construction manager is responsible for the
inventorying and receiving of the augers and is a part owner of a company that supplies augers
to the company. The supplier was approved by the president of the company to improve the
quality of equipment.
Which of the following procedures is the least appropriate engagement procedure to address
these analytical observations?

Note the explanation in the working papers for investigation during the next engagement and perform no further work at this time. 
Develop a comparative analysis of auger expense over the past few years to determine if the relationship held in previous years. 
Take a sample of debits to the auger expense account and trace to independent shipping documents and to invoices for the augers. 
Arrange to take an inventory of augers to determine if the augers purchased this year were on hand and would be available for use in the next 2 years. 
1
Question Explanation
10
Performing no further work is the least appropriate engagement procedure because it defers the investigation to the following year. The construction manager's conflict of interest provides the motive for fraud, and the ineffective controls allow its commission and concealment. 
A comparative analysis is an effective procedure to establish the reasonableness of the manager's explanation. If the relationship is valid, it should also have held in previous years. 
The internal auditor should obtain independent information as to whether the goods invoiced were received. The internal auditor should search for receiving reports signed by parties other than the construction manager and should verify that those individuals exist. The construction manager is in a position to bill the organization for more augers than are actually received and to conceal the shortage. 
Taking an inventory of the augers enables the internal auditor to verify their existence and condition. 
922
The auditor finds a situation in which one person has the ability to collect receivables, make
deposits, issue credit memos, and record receipt of payments. The auditor suspects the
individual may be stealing from cash receipts. Which of the following audit procedures will be
most effective in discovering fraud in this scenario?

Send positive confirmations to a random selection of customers. 
Send negative confirmations to all outstanding accounts receivable customers. 
Perform a detailed review of debits to customer discounts, sales returns, or other debit accounts, excluding cash posted to the cash receipts journal. 
Take a sample of bank deposits and trace the detail in each bank deposit back to the entry in           the cash receipts journal. 
3
Question Explanation
10
An employee who performs asset custody, authorization, and recording functions can conceal the theft by debiting customer discounts or sales returns. Customers would be unaware of the activity because their balances would reflect their expectations. 
An employee who performs asset custody, authorization, and recording functions can conceal the theft by debiting customer discounts or sales returns. Customers would be unaware of the activity because their balances would reflect their expectations. 
The most effective procedure is to perform a detailed review of debits to customer discounts, sales returns, and other debit accounts. These accounts could be used to conceal a theft of cash payments without alerting customers. 
Bank deposits will agree with journal entries. The stolen amounts are never recorded. 
923
Which of the following controls is the least effective in preventing a fraud conducted by
sending purchase orders to bogus vendors?

Require that all purchases be made from an authorized vendor list maintained independently of the individual placing the purchase order. 
Require that only approved vendors be paid for purchases, based on actual production. 
Require contracts with all major vendors from whom production components are purchased. 
D.	Require that total purchases for a month not exceed the total budgeted purchases for that month. 
4
Question Explanation
10
Segregating the selection and approval of reputable vendors from placement of actual orders is an effective means of preventing fraud. 
Restricting payment to approved vendors is an effective means of preventing fraud. 
Requiring contracts with major vendors is an effective means of preventing fraud. 
Requiring that total purchases for a month not exceed the total budgeted purchases for that month is the least effective procedure. It controls the total amount of expenditures, not whether a purchase has been requested and authorized, with whom the purchase orders are placed, or whether goods purchased are received. 
924
A purchasing agent acquired items for personal use with the organization&quot;s funds. The
organization allowed designated employees to purchase a specified amount per day in
merchandise under open-ended contracts. Supervisory approval of the purchases was required,
but that information was not communicated to the vendor. Instead of reviewing and authorizing
each purchase order, supervisors routinely signed the authorization sheet at the end of the
month without reviewing any of the supporting documentation. Because purchases of this
nature were not subject to normal receiving policies, the dishonest employee picked up the
supplies at the vendor&quot;s warehouse. All purchases were for items routinely ordered by the
organization. During the past year, the employee amassed enough merchandise to start a
printing and photography business. Which of the following controls would have been most
effective in preventing this fraud?

Allowing purchases only from a list of pre-approved vendors. 
Requiring the use of prenumbered purchase orders for all purchases of merchandise. 
Canceling supporting documents, such as purchase orders and receiving reports, at the time invoices are paid. 
Establishing separation of duties between the ordering and receiving of merchandise. 
4
Question Explanation
10
The facts do not suggest that the vendor's actions were inappropriate. 
Prenumbering would not have prevented the fraud. The weakness is in the authorization and receiving procedures. 
Canceling supporting documents when invoices are paid prevents the same document from being used to support two identical payments, but that is not the abuse here. 
Separating the purchasing and receiving functions would have improved internal control. If the supplies in question had been sent to the organization, and a receiving report had been prepared by an employee other than the one ordering the goods, the fraud could not have occurred. Moreover, the receiving department should not accept goods unless it has a blind copy of a properly approved purchase order for the items. 
925
A           purchasing agent acquired items for personal use with the organization&quot;s funds. The
organization allowed designated employees to purchase a specified amount per day in
merchandise under open-ended contracts. Supervisory approval of the purchases was required,
but that information was not communicated to the vendor. Instead of reviewing and authorizing
each purchase order, supervisors routinely signed the authorization sheet at the end of the
month without reviewing any of the supporting documentation. Because purchases of this
nature were not subject to normal receiving policies, the dishonest employee picked up the
supplies at the vendor&quot;s warehouse. All purchases were for items routinely ordered by the
organization. During the past year, the employee amassed enough merchandise to start a
printing and photography business. Which of the following engagement procedures, performed
by the internal auditor, is most likely to detect this fraud?

Tracing selected canceled checks to the cash payments journal and to the related vendors' invoices. 
Performing a trend analysis of printing supplies expenses for a 2-year period. 
Tracing prices and quantities on selected vendors' invoices to the related purchase orders. 
Recomputing the clerical accuracy of selected vendors' invoices, including discounts and sales taxes. 
2
Question Explanation
10
A legitimate vendor's invoice existed for each cash payment related to this fraud. 
Analytical procedures are evaluations of financial information made by a study of plausible relationships among both financial and nonfinancial data. They involve comparisons of recorded amounts, or ratios developed from recorded amounts with expectations developed by the internal auditor. A basic premise underlying the application of analytical procedures is that plausible relationships among data may reasonably be expected to exist and continue in the absence of known conditions to the contrary. Thus, performing a trend analysis of printing supplies expenses for a 2-year period should identify an excess use of supplies. 
The issue is not whether the invoices are accurate but whether the transactions are authorized. 
The issue is not whether the invoices are accurate but whether the transactions are authorized. 
926
A           potential problem for a manufacturer is that purchasing agents may take kickbacks or receive
gifts from vendors in exchange for favorable contracts. Which of the following is the least
effective in preventing this problem?

A specific organizational policy prohibiting the acceptance of anything of value from a vendor. 
An organizational code of ethics that prohibits such activity. 
A requirement for the purchasing agent to develop a profile of all vendors before the vendors are added to the authorized vendor list. 
The establishment of long-'term contracts with major vendors, with the contract terms approved by senior management. 
3
Question Explanation
10
A policy prohibiting kickbacks and gifts from vendors provides guidance and influences behavior. 
A code of ethics gives direction to the purchasing agents and is helpful in influencing behavior. 
A requirement for the purchasing agent to develop a profile of all vendors is the least effective approach because it concerns only the authorization of vendors, a function that should be performed independently of the purchasing agent. It does not address the purchasing agent's relationships with approved vendors. 
Approval of long-'term vendor contracts by senior management is an effective procedure that is increasingly being used by many organizations. 
927
A purchasing agent received expensive gifts from a vendor in return for directing a significant
amount of business to that vendor. Which of the following organizational policies most
effectively prevents such an occurrence?

All purchases exceeding specified monetary amounts should be approved by an official who determines compliance with budgetary requirements. 
Important high-volume materials should regularly be purchased from at least two different sources in order to afford supply protection. 
The purchasing function should be decentralized so each department manager or supervisor does his/her own purchasing. 
Competitive bids should be solicited on purchases to the maximum extent that is practicable. 
4
Question Explanation
10
The problem is vendor selection, not authorization of purchases. 
A purchasing agent could still display favoritism to one of the vendors. 
Decentralization creates more opportunities for buyer fraud. 
In the absence of special circumstances, competitive bidding is a legitimate and effective means of obtaining the lowest price consistent with quality. It is a practice that exploits competition in the market place. Competitive bidding also serves as a control over fraud by restricting the ability of a purchasing agent to reward a favored vendor. 
928
A fraud was perpetrated in a moderate-sized organization when the accounting clerk was
delegated too much responsibility. During the year, the organization switched suppliers of a
service to a new vendor. The accounting clerk continued to submit fraudulent invoices from the
&quot;old supplier.&quot;   Because contracting for services and approval of supplier invoices had been
delegated to the clerk, it was possible for the clerk to continue billings from the old supplier
and deposit the subsequent checks, which the clerk was responsible to mail, into a new account
the clerk opened in the name of the old supplier. The clerk was considered an excellent
employee and eventually was improperly given the added responsibility of preparing the
department budgets. This added responsibility allowed the clerk to budget for the amount of the
fraudulent payments. Which of the following controls would have been least likely to prevent
or detect the fraud described?

Requiring authorization of payments by someone other than the clerk negotiating the contract. 
Comparison by the person signing checks of invoices with an independent verification of services received. 
Budget preparation by someone other than the person signing contracts and approving payment. 
Mailing of checks by someone other than the person responsible for check signing or invoice approval. 
4
Question Explanation
10
Separating contracting for services and approval of invoices would have prevented the fraud. 
An independent verification of services received reviewed by the check signer would have prevented payment for services not received. 
Independent budget preparation would have allowed an actual- with-budget comparison to detect the payments. 
Once invoices have been approved, and checks prepared and signed, the mailing of the check by an independent person provides no means of preventing improper payments. The person responsible for the treasury function should sign the checks, transmit them, and cancel the supporting documents. 
929
A           fraud was perpetrated in a moderate-sized organization when the accounting clerk was
delegated too much responsibility. During the year, the organization switched suppliers of a
service to a new vendor. The accounting clerk continued to submit fraudulent invoices from the
&quot;old supplier.&quot;   Because contracting for services and approval of supplier invoices had been
delegated to the clerk, it was possible for the clerk to continue billings from the old supplier
and deposit the subsequent checks, which the clerk was responsible to mail, into a new account
the clerk opened in the name of the old supplier. The clerk was considered an excellent
employee and eventually was improperly given the added responsibility of preparing the
department budgets. This added responsibility allowed the clerk to budget for the amount of the
fraudulent payments. Which of the following engagement procedures is most likely to detect
the fraud?

Take a sample of paid invoices and verify receipt of services by departments involved. 
Trace a sample of checks disbursed to approved invoices for services. 
Perform a bank reconciliation and account for all outstanding checks. 
Trace a sample of receiving documents to invoices and to checks disbursed. 
2
Question Explanation
10
Confirming with the using department the receipt of services that have been paid for would uncover the fraud. 
The fraudulent invoices were approved by the clerk, and each check is therefore supported by an approved invoice. 
Bank reconciliations do not test the validity of the cash payments. 
Beginning with valid receiving reports will not detect the fraud. The direction of testing is inappropriate. 
930
A programmer&quot;s accumulation of roundoff errors into one account, which is later accessed by
the programmer, is a type of computer fraud. The best way to prevent this type of fraud is to

 Build in judgment with reasonableness tests. 
Independently test programs during development and limit access to the programs. 
Segregate duties of systems development and programming. 
Use control totals and check the results of the computer. 
2
Question Explanation
10
Reasonableness tests will not detect this irregularity. In this particular type of fraud, all of the amounts will balance. 
Programmers should not have access to programs used in processing. The accumulation of roundoff errors into one person's account is a procedure written into the program. Independent testing of a program will lead to discovery of this programmed fraud. 
Segregation of duties between systems development and programming would not prevent this type of error. The skills required to construct the program are possessed by programmers. 
This particular fraud will result in balanced entries. Thus, control totals would not detect the fraud. 
931
The risk of the addition of fictitious employees to the payroll by the person performing the
payroll processing function is reduced by

Requiring that payroll additions be approved by the controller. 
Requiring the same employee to perform the monthly payroll bank reconciliation. 
Performing periodic floor checks of employees on the payroll. 
Requiring a reconciliation of hours between time cards and hours paid. 
3
Question Explanation
10
Payroll additions should be authorized by the personnel department, not by the controller (chief accounting officer), an official with record keeping responsibility. 
For a proper segregation of functions, the reconciliation should be performed by someone who has no payroll processing duties. 
One control used to detect the addition of fictitious persons to the payroll is for the auditor to make a periodic comparison of the names on the payroll with persons observed working for the company. Observation of payroll distribution is such a control. 
The amount, not the validity, of the payment is verified. 
932
During an engagement involving the purchasing department, an internal auditor learned that
one vendor rewarded buyers in proportion to the size of the orders received. What
recommendation should the internal auditor make to reduce the likelihood of future acceptance
of such rewards by the buyers?

Establishing an employee counseling program. 
Periodic review of buyer lifestyles. 
A policy of identifying and reducing buyer situational pressures. 
A strong, written statement of management's commitment to organizational ethics. 
4
Question Explanation
10
Counseling is unlikely to change the behavior of dishonest employees. 
Such review is a detective control that would not uncover fraud unless a lifestyle change occurred. 
Situational pressures external to the organization may be beyond its control. Pressures within the organization, e.g., to improve performance, should not cause a buyer to take bribes from vendors. 
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control to prevent or detect fraud at a reasonable cost (PA 1210.A2-2). A component of internal control is the control environment. Among other factors in that environment are integrity and ethical values and management's philosophy and operating style (Glossary appended to the Standards). A strong commitment by management to ethical conduct reflected in its written policies, personnel practices, interest in effective control, etc., will foster creation of the appropriate environment. 
933
Fraudulent use of the organization&quot;s credit cards is minimized by which of the following
internal control procedures?

Establishing an organizational policy on the issuance of credit cards to authorized employees. 
Reviewing the validity of credit card need at executive and operating levels on a periodic basis. 
Reconciling the monthly statement from the credit card issuer with the submitted copies of the cardholder' s charge slips. 
Subjecting credit card charges to the same expense controls as those used on regular organizational expense forms. 
4
Question Explanation
10
Establishing a policy on the issuance of credit cards relates to appropriate issuance, not fraudulent use. 
Reviewing the validity of credit card need at executive and operating levels relates to appropriate issuance of credit cards, not fraudulent use. 
The reconciliation tests correct invoicing by the credit card issuers for credit charges. It would not necessarily detect personal or fraudulent use if the payees and amounts were not suspicious. 
Fraudulent use of credit cards implies charging the organization for unauthorized expenditures, presumably personal charges. The problem is the same for any type of expense account expenditures, whether credit card or cash. Thus, normal expense controls should preclude credit card fraud by employees. 
934
An organization hired a highly qualified accounts payable manager who had been terminated
from another organization for alleged wrongdoing. Six months later, the manager diverted US
$12,000 by sending duplicate payments of invoices to a relative. A control that might have
prevented this situation is to

Adequately check prior employment backgrounds for all new employees. 
Not hire individuals who appear overqualified for a job. 
Verify educational background for all new employees. 
Check to see whether close relatives work for vendors. 
1
Question Explanation
10
Staffing concerns providing the necessary personnel to achieve organizational objectives economically. Because honest and capable personnel also help create an environment conducive to effective internal control, hiring policies and procedures are crucial. Background checks, for example, may screen out potential hirees of questionable character and serve to prevent potential fraud. 
Being overqualified is not an indicator of bad character. 
Checking prior employment is more likely to uncover prior fraudulent behavior. 
Checking to see whether close relatives work for vendors is not an adequate control in this scenario. 
935
Internal auditors and management have become increasingly concerned about computer fraud.
Which of the following control procedures is least important in preventing computer fraud?

Program change control requiring a distinction between production programs and test programs. 
Testing of new applications by users during the systems development process. 
Segregation of duties between the applications programmer and the program librarian function. 
Segregation of duties between the programmer and systems analyst. 
4
Question Explanation
10
A program should be redesigned using a working copy, not the version in use. 
Testing of new applications by users is one of the most important controls to help prevent computer fraud. 
Adequate control over program changes is one of the most important control procedures in a computerized environment. Programmers should not have access to operational progress, and librarians should not be able to program. 
Segregation of the programming and systems analysis functions is of least concern given that the analyst is responsible for communicating the nature of the design to the programmer. There is no control reason not to combine these functions. 
936
A means of ensuring that payroll checks are drawn for properly authorized amounts is to
Conduct periodic floor verification of employees on the payroll. 
Require that undelivered checks be returned to the cashier. 
Require supervisory approval of employee time cards. 
Witness the distribution of payroll checks. 
3
Question Explanation
10
Employees may be properly included on payroll, but the amounts paid may be unauthorized. 
Returning undelivered checks to the cashier provides no information regarding the validity of the amounts of checks. 
Review and approval of time cards by line supervisors is appropriate because they should know whether work has been performed. Also, because they do not distribute paychecks, they are not in a position to divert falsely authorized checks. 
Witnessing a payroll distribution does not assure that the amounts paid are authorized. 
937
A payroll clerk working through a computerized payroll system increased the hourly pay rate of
two employees and shared the resulting overpayments with the employees. Which of the
following would have best served to prevent this illegal act?

Requiring that all changes to pay records be recorded on a standard form. 
Limiting access to master payroll records to supervisory personnel in the payroll department. 
Reconciling pay rates per personnel records with those of the payroll system annually. 
Monitoring of payroll costs by department heads on a monthly basis. 
2
Question Explanation
10
Requiring a standard form does not prevent an unauthorized pay rate change if it can be made without the form. The requirement that all changes to pay records be recorded on a standard form does not restrict access to the computer files. Hence, unauthorized changes could still be made. 
The best preventive control is to restrict the ability of employees to gain access to sensitive information. The computer security system should therefore incorporate measures (such as password protection and device authorization tables) that will prevent an unauthorized person from changing stored information. 
Annual reconciliation of pay rates per personnel records with those of the payroll system is detective rather than preventive. 
Monitoring of payroll costs by department heads on a monthly basis is detective rather than preventive. 
